"This is Irene Cardozo and I’m interviewing Missus Patricia Burnett in her home on June 2,"
2010
"All right,"
"Missus Burnett,"
where were you born?
I was born right here in Gainesville.
"Gainesville,"
Florida.
What year did you graduate from Lincoln High?
1966
66
"Ok,"
so that was three years before the integration took place?
"Yes,"
uh-huh.
And how was it growing up here in Gainesville in the 1960s?
Well I did have a little something to relate it to because I was able to travel to South Florida.
"Well,"
"it was,"
"it was,"
it was life.
It was good.
"Um back in those days,"
no matter what the situation economic or whatever children didn’t deal with it.
"It was not,"
"you know,"
common knowledge of anything.
It was just that we had a certain way of life and that’s the way we lived.
And not it was strange or different from anything else because that was all we knew.
"And as far when you were growing up,"
what was the thing to do for fun?
What did you and your friends enjoy doing for fun?
"Well during the young years,"
"younger,"
when we were much younger we playing outside pick-up games.
"We could-if two people got together,"
that was a game.
Four people—that was a big game.
"You know but,"
"we played outside,"
"we got older we were able to go to sport activities and go to dances,"
things like that.
"We were told that at Lincoln High they taught dating etiquette classes,"
as far as how to behave around boys and stuff.
Uh-huh.
What did you pick up from that?
"I remember especially my senior year,"
we had Modern Family Living.
"Because back then we had home economics where they taught you how to cook,"
"to sew,"
"clean house,"
"set a table,"
"those kinds of things,"
and they taught you etiquette.
"Um then as you became older and more groomed,"
"you were taught the modern family class was how to become a young lady,"
and how-things not to do.
"The do’s and don’ts of a young lady,"
in my case.
And then for the guys were young men.
"So,"
"we were taught to abstain,"
"we were taught to—well,"
drugs were not introduced at that time out here in Gainesville.
And alcohol wasn’t a big deal.
"If somebody had a beer,"
that was it.
And that-it was the highlight of the evening.
"Usually it was hot,"
so.
Things haven’t changed.
What were some of your favorite school subjects when you were a kid?
Science
Science
Science.
"Math followed,"
but I liked science.
And what may be made you like science?
I don’t know.
"I don’t know,"
"I just,"
"I just,"
"I was more curious about that,"
and wanted to pursue something in the science field.
"I,"
"of course,"
"had every girl’s dream,"
I wanted to be a nurse.
"You either wanted to be a nurse or a teacher you know back then because they were respected in the community,"
"and that was a big thing,"
we had community back then.
"And so I didn’t want to teach necessarily,"
"But I wanted I wanted to be a nurse because like I was growing up my grandmother was ill,"
"I had a lot of ill relatives in the family,"
"you know,"
"so it was like,"
"if you got training,"
"you know,"
but then you thought you don’t think about mortality.
"So then later on,"
"you know,"
"when people started passing on,"
it kind of changed things for me.
And what do you do for a living now?
"Well,"
I’m retired from the University of Florida.
I was a lab manager at a research lab.
Oh really?
So I was able to pursue something in the sciences.
"And now I’m at a school,"
"I’m at Lincoln,"
"I'm not at Lincoln,"
I’m at Duval Elementary School.
"And I started in the classroom as an aide,"
this is after my first retirement.
"And I moved up to the office,"
and I’m a senior clerical on the front desk.
"When I retired from the University,"
"I said I’d be a greeter at Walmart,"
but I’m a greeter at Duval.
So.
And what was your first job?
My first job was babysitting.
Babysitting
Uh-huh.
And I babysat for one of our instructors at school.
And that was quite rewarding.
And how old were you?
I was Sixteen.
"Um as far as the community,"
how close was it?
Like interactions?
"Oh,"
very close.
Very close-knit.
"We,"
when someone was ill in the neighborhood—because everybody didn’t work outside the home—those that stayed in prepared meals for the people that had to and had a sick relative or something.
And they looked out for each other.
"We looked out for each other’s children,"
and for the welfare of our neighbors.
"We knew all our neighbors,"
now we don’t.
"And even like when we moved up to high school,"
"when we had functions at Lincoln,"
"like our band,"
"what would they have,"
"choral—not contest,"
"but,"
"what I’m trying to say is,"
"well,"
"When the bands would come together and would compete,"
and we had the choral type things too.
"Well,"
"our kids couldn’t really go to hotels to stay,"
"so neighbors would open up their homes,"
"and kids would come from Palatka,"
"Starke,"
"or wherever,"
West Palm Beach even you know would come up here even and families would open up their homes.
And they would stay with students from Lincoln.
That’s nice.
Uh-huh.
"Let’s talk a bit about your family here,"
siblings?
I had two siblings growing up—two sisters—one that’s now deceased.
My oldest sister lives in Tallahassee.
And she became a teacher.
Teacher?
"Yes,"
a math teacher.
"Are you married,"
or?
I’m divorced.
Did you have any kids?
"Yes,"
I have two sons.
Tell me about them a little bit.
"Well,"
the oldest is here in Gainesville.
And he works over at Shands in the Bone Marrow Transplant Unit.
And the younger one graduated from Florida A&M in Tallahassee and he lives in Atlanta.
Oh that's very nice. 
Mhm. 
"Out of all the jobs you’ve had,"
which one has been your favorite thus far?
"Well,"
I don’t know.
"I’ve had two major jobs,"
"well,"
"I worked at a department store,"
but that wasn’t a “job”.
"But I enjoyed the one at the University because,"
"like I said,"
it involved the sciences and I enjoy that.
"But then when I changed,"
I totally changed;
now I’m with children.
And I think how how blessed I am because I get all—I get enough.
"I get enough love,"
"I get enough laughs,"
"I get enough in the days run at school,"
"these little kids that when they light up,"
"you know,"
"and,"
“Hey Missus Burnett” and they come and want to give me a hug.
"And that is rewarding in itself,"
you know.
"So,"
"on two different levels,"
"I’ve just enjoyed,"
"well,"
I’ve enjoyed my journey in this life so.
Those two I can say that I’ve really enjoyed.
You mentioned choir.
"Have you done that for a long time,"
since high school?
Singing in a choir?
Uh-huh.
"Oh listen,"
"I didn’t sing at school uh-uh,"
I was a cheerleader.
Oh.
"I wanted to be in the band because Lincoln had this awesome band,"
"well,"
it was all we had.
"And when it was Homecoming,"
"we wouldn’t have school that day,"
"we’d go to the parade and they’d be downtown,"
"and they were high steppers,"
"I mean,"
"proud,"
"I mean,"
"you could,"
"just ooze pride,"
you know what I mean?
And so I wanted to bepart of that.
"And I wanted to play the bells because I found that they had the notes on them,"
but then I found out you had to read the notes in order to play the notes that were written on the instruments.
"I didn’t do that too well,"
"so when the band leader asked me if I could sing,"
"and I told him “no”,"
"he said usually people that could sing it’s easier to pick up on reading notes,"
"so I decided to go out for cheerleading,"
so I did that.
And how many years did you do that for?
For three.
You could do it from 9th grade 9th through 12th.
And when did you start choir now?
"Oh,"
now I sing at my church choir.
"But,"
"I only started doing that because the senior choir,"
"so old and they needed some help and I said,"
"you know,"
"it says make a joyful noise so that’s what I do,"
I make a joyful noise.
Tell me a little about the Lincoln High everyday life.
"Oh,"
it was something to aspire to.
"You knew,"
"because it was all we had,"
"you knew we had A Quinn Elementary,"
"we had Williams Elementary,"
and we had Duval Elementary in those three sectors of the city.
"And you knew where high school would get you,"
you had to go to Lincoln.
"And it was ok because all of your family had gone to Lincoln,"
"and you figured everybody behind you is going to go too,"
"so everybody knew everybody,"
"we were all connected,"
and it was like community there.
"So,"
"you had a teacher in a classroom,"
and that teacher may be your Sunday school teacher on Sunday.
"So,"
"you didn’t get far away from,"
"you know,"
"knowing your instructors,"
or them knowing you quite well.
"They knew your siblings before you,"
"and after you left they caught some of your siblings after you,"
those that came through right after me.
But it was-it was good.
It was like family.
Really.
And how drastic was the change after 1969?
"Well,"
"we thought that with integration,"
"because we knew that we were using sub- materials,"
"left over materials,"
different things like that.
"We knew we were,"
"as you got older you start realizing some things,"
and you knew that it was not maybe—.
Our chemistry lab had one microscope.
"I had not been over to GHS or uh Buchholz,"
so I don’t know what they had.
But you knew it was better than maybe.
"But with what we had,"
they did they did an outstanding job.
I know that because a lot of doctors and lawyers came out of Lincoln.
Even with the sub-materials.
And—what was the question?
"Oh,"
the change.
Yes!
"So then we thought that integration would make it better,"
"but it seems that we lost a lot more than we gained,"
"and meaning we lost a community,"
"we lost that connection,"
that my children don’t know about you know.
"I’m the last generation to know what,"
"when we talk about Lincoln,"
"or Mebane,"
"or RJE in Starke,"
"those schools,"
"were the last generation to know what it meant to say,"
“I’m from Lincoln High School”.
"You know,"
and we still know our alma matter.
"Kids graduating now,"
"they don’t even,"
"they’re not connected,"
"they don’t have that cohesiveness,"
"that love or pride for their schools,"
"whatever that,"
"that’s down up in here,"
you know what I mean?
That you take with you.
It’s just not there.
"So the change was drastic,"
"that’s why we were so angry that they had—we had this beautiful auditorium that was second to none,"
we were told that it was second to none.
We knew that it was second to none.
"We had a good school with good teachers and because someone else is in power,"
"someone else decides that,"
"“Well,"
this is not good enough for this side of town to come to” even though they bussed our kids past two schools.
"And in Alachua,"
"the kids came from High Springs,"
passed Santa Fe to get to Mebane.
But it was not equipped enough for certain other families to come to it you know.
But that’s why we were so angry.
"That’s why we were so hurt,"
"and then for someone to make a decision that the ratio had to be 7 to 30,"
that blew my mind.
"When they did integrate,"
"when they if ever opened up schools over here that they had to be 7 to 30,"
why?
"When you have children living two blocks away,"
"when they could go to that school,"
but they send them someplace else.
But you could bus children from two and three miles.
"Micanopy,"
"11 miles away,"
to come to this one place.
So I know we lost more than we gained with integration.
And what high schools did your kids go to?
GHS
GHS 
Mhm
"Did it also change the dynamic in the community,"
"like not only in the Lincoln community,"
but also like Lakeland?
"The question I had asked was,"
"aside from the actual Lincoln community changing,"
"did your actual neighborhood community change too,"
as far as dynamics with the change?
"Well,"
"with them going over changing schools—our parents were involved before,"
"we had an awesome PTO,"
PTA that we got out and raise-raised money to buy band uniforms.
"Our clothes were red and white,"
"but as long as I could remember we had marched in grey,"
"as a matter of fact I found out they were donated from,"
they were old uniforms from the University of Florida.
"The blue and grey with the gold stripe down the side,"
"but our colors were red and white,"
"but it never,"
it didn’t even dawn on me we don’t have red and white.
You know what I mean?
"But the band was just so good,"
it really was.
And people wanted to become a part of that.
"It’s like the legacy with,"
I don’t know if you’re familiar with Florida A&M in Tallahassee.
"It’s FAMU and They have this,"
they were called the marching 100.
"But it wasn’t because they have 100 members,"
but it’s because they marched 100 steps per minute.
It was just—they were just good.
"They marched in the inauguration,"
"inaugural parade,"
and they’ve marched over in England.
"But anyway,"
"the families,"
the parents got out and raised money for those uniforms.
"We lost all of that,"
all of our pride.
Everything that we had—our trophies from years and years—all of that was just—it’s like it wasn’t worth anything to anyone other than us.
"And since you were taking—we’re not in control anymore—you know,"
"we don’t have to keep up with your things,"
they were just things.
"But,"
"they were a source of pride,"
"accomplishments,"
"and you know,"
for us it was something we could tangibly look at or put our hands on.
"So then when the children moved to other areas,"
"other schools,"
parents didn’t really feel welcomed.
Children didn’t feel welcomed.
"It was being forced upon,"
even being forced upon in the other neighborhood.
"So everybody is being put upon here,"
you know.
"And um so the parent participation didn’t really follow,"
because everybody—the anger was there you know.
And that’s the first thing you had to deal with.
"So,"
"well since then,"
the dynamics of the neighborhood has changed.
Because these were all Black neighborhoods.
"But things have changed now because the fair housing and that kind of thing opened up,"
"so,"
"excuse me,"
"have different neighbors,"
and so that’s changed.
"But at that time,"
"no,"
"it was not,"
it was not a good thing.
And um Blacks were not allowed in downtown and certain neighborhoods after dark.
"And the other side of town certainly was not welcome,"
"you know,"
over here.
"Because,"
why are you here?
"You know,"
you did not come here for any good thing.
You come and might be some projects come from the university that made people leery.
"Because they would come over,"
"they’d come and start something but it was like,"
they came to take something.
"They didn’t come to bring anything,"
they came to take something from the community.
"Not to give,"
"or not to enhance,"
or to add to.
So um which made the older families a little leery when people wanted to come and introduce something new because change is not that great all the time.
And then the experiences with change had not been good.
Do you feel that the integration had any positive effect at all?
"Well,"
"it had positive effects that it upgraded,"
"I mean,"
it had to work its way.
"intially,"
no.
"Initially,"
"we could say well,"
"now we can,"
we are supposed to get what we should have.
"But like I said,"
"somebody saying 7 to 30,"
that’s not what you should have.
You should have the freedom to go where you want to go.
"You should have—and it should’ve been there all along,"
but it wasn’t.
But this is how we make it right.
We make it right by giving you this.
"And then you deal with this,"
"just a little bit,"
you know.
"We give you,"
"we can’t give you too much because then you get too much control,"
"or you get—I don’t know,"
Um I don't know it’s just—mm.
I understand.
"So back to Lincoln,"
"conditions and stuff,"
where there any stereotypes within the school?
"You know,"
"like on TV nowadays,"
"You know there are jocks,"
"the band people,"
"and cheerleaders,"
was there any break up like that within the school at all?
"Oh yeah,"
you always get that.
"The most popular,"
and the—but it wasn’t so much so that it would cause so much dissension.
"At one time,"
"well,"
we had had classes.
"We had even with color,"
"if your shade was a little lighter than mine,"
"your hair was a little bit different from mine,"
"you know,"
"you could make the assumption,"
"That oh this she thinks or he thinks that he’s here,"
"you know or,"
"so,"
"I guess you always have a little bit of I don’t know what they have but I'm just saying but there's always cause, they make comments about Caucasians you know somebody's in the trailer park somebody's on 5th avenue. Somebody's out in hell plantation. Those kind of assumptions you know or distinctions between people. But um not so that it would cause so much dissension between-cause we had the community and I don't wanna paint a picture that it was all lovey-dovey you know I mean we had our differences and we- like anybody else- but you could you could um it's like I can talk about you but you can't talk about-you know you know what I mean we all stick together "
But it was community.
It was really it was love.
"Any favorite memories as far as,"
"you know,"
high school?
"Any memorable events or anything,"
"dances,"
you can talk about?
Oh yes.
Excuse me Now what where they oh gosh it's been so long ago I've been out of school for over 40 years?
Now at Lincoln we had the junior high 7th through 7th and 8th grade senior high now was it 7th through 9th grade senior high 10th through 12th
Um we had a social in the spring called the uh spring festival that was for the 10th grade class 
We didn't attend any socials before then and um that was something you look forward to.
Now kids go to prom so early that you know and then we had out senior prom.
The junior class would be in response of the prom of the seniors my class 
We decided we did not want a prom we wanted to go to the Bahamas so the junior class helped finance our trip to the Bahamas 
But that was we were the first class to do that um I think another class went to Washington after us
Maybe they went before us
It's getting fuzzy
"But the prom was the thing,"
"And um the time to dress up,"
and our first experience of socials of prom-like atmosphere was in 10th grade with the Spring Festival.
"And as far as when you were older in high school and you were allowed to hang out with friends and stuff,"
what would you guys do for fun?
"Well we had a theatre,"
"we had a theatre over across town called the Rose Theatre,"
we’d go to the theatre on Saturday nights.
"And we had a Rec center and we’d go around there and dance,"
and hurry and get back to the movies by the time my daddy came to pick us up because we weren’t supposed to be around the Rec center so .
"How was your household growing up,"
as far as your parents raising you guys?
"Well,"
my dad raised us.
"Well here,"
this is the family home as a matter of fact.
"My dad raised us,"
"three girls,"
"and his mother and grandmother lived here,"
and he was our mother and father.
"And he passed on about fourteen years ago,"
as a matter of fact he would’ve been 100 on the 16th of this month.
"So on last weekend we had a family get together and we honored his 100th birthday,"
upcoming month.
"And if you don’t mind my asking,"
your mom wasn’t in the picture?
She passed away when I was 5.
You were mentioning how there was a lot of sickness in your family.
Uh-huh.
Were there any relatives that lived nearby here?
"Yes,"
both grandmothers lived here.
My great grandmother was sick when we got here.
"And then my mother’s mother and my mother’s father took sick with a stroke and he passed on,"
"and then her mother got sick and I was staying with her,"
like to help her.
"And then she got sick and passed on,"
but by that time I was in high school.
I was in 10th grade by that time.
Um Let's see what was the most important historical event to you personally?
"As far as any— whether it be politically,"
"socially,"
economically.
The day that President Kennedy was killed.
"And,"
"we were at school,"
"I also remember Sputnik or something going off and watching that,"
"but the day that they announced that President John Kennedy had been shot,"
there was a hush that fell over that school and it was like a relative.
"You could see people standing in the corners in tears,"
"and all over our neighborhood,"
"and it was devastating,"
just devastating.
"And that night,"
"Let's see it was on a Thursday, it was on a Thursday "
"we had a game that Friday night,"
and they dedicated that in his memory.
"And I think we played Mebane at that time,"
"but it was everybody was just,"
"girls were just boo-hooing,"
"and it was just awful,"
it was awful.
"Closest thing I‘ve seen to that in a school setting was a couple of years ago,"
"one of the teachers down at Duval,"
"passed away suddenly,"
and they had to bring in the team of counselors for grief.
"Because the children were just grief stricken and just,"
it was just awful.
And at that point in time what did you admire and look up to as far as Kennedy?
What was it about him that made him so likeable?
"He was just so personable it seemed,"
my daddy liked him too .
"And um and we felt that he was the one that was trying to do something for our race,"
trying to help.
"And uh um it’s just like we saw a future in him,"
had hope.
"Like he was,"
"you know,"
"there was hope when he was in office to improve things that had traditionally gone a certain way,"
"to make a change,"
and a positive change for us.
"So um and not just for us,"
but us primarily because you know what I mean?
I’m the only one—our lifestyle is the only lifestyle I know.
"So when I know that we needed to make a change and we needed a change and when you see that it’s coming,"
then it’s a positive thing for us.
"So that’s why when he passed it was like oh,"
is hope dead you know?
Is this it?
Or do we move backwards or do we continue to move forward?
"But then his brother was left,"
"you know,"
"so that whole family was like,"
they were family.
"They were-they were personable people,"
and you just kind of made some kind of connection of sorts with them.
We—now on to Obama.
Of course I had to ask you about that.
How did you feel when he got elected?
"I was,"
I was elated.
"I was—it was historical that,"
"never thought it would happen because of Shirley Chisholm,"
"Al Sharpton,"
"Jesse Jackson,"
and all those others that had tried.
But you felt like this was the one.
"That’s the way I felt,"
and I was very proud.
I knew he was inheriting one hell of a mess.
"And the thing is that,"
"people forget,"
"we have short-term memory as to how we get to a place,"
but then you want instant gratification.
"We’re an instant society,"
"we want instant gratification,"
"we want out problems solved now,"
"we want everything now,"
"and,"
which is not realistic.
"But if you have someone to blame,"
“I’m sorry but you’re to blame”.
"You know so,"
"now that he’s been in office,"
"and things haven’t cleared in you know,"
"overnight,"
"you know,"
so he’s getting he's getting the heat.
"So I have to pray for him,"
I do.
"Who was the first candidate you voted for,"
the first time you ever voted?
"Oh gosh,"
I can’t remember.
Do you remember what year you voted the first time?
Lord.
"I’ve been voting for longer than I’ve been out of… no,"
"I haven’t been voting that long,"
well since I got out of high school.
"Whoever it was,"
he was a democrat.
Carter?
No it was before Carter.
"He didn’t win,"
but I voted for him.
"He didn’t win,"
but anyway.
"All right,"
let’s see.
Any hobbies growing up?
Hmm I don’t remember any.
Just reading;
I would read.
I can’t remember.
"I can remember my sister’s,"
but I can’t remember mine.
What are your favorite memories of your sisters?
"Well,"
"my sister that passed on,"
"now,"
she had a very vivid imagination.
And she was an avid reader too.
"Now,"
she’s the kind that would stay up all night.
"If she started a book today,"
she couldn’t put it down.
"But see,"
"I could put it down,"
it could become an old friend of mine But I'll read it I like to get into it and get the characters you know 
And they become-they do become like old friends or cause I hate to get to the end of it sometimes I hate to end it because it's like they're moving on and then I have to find some new friends
But she would take back then take the Sears catalogue and in her description of whatever she had on- she would find something she liked- and she would describe it to a T 
And what he had on and what he said but because she would bring the characters to life and- and she used to write these books of these stories and we would clean out the garage
We got rid of a lot of things I wish we would have kept them because that's what we laugh and talk about now
That we would just go back to one of her old stories 
"We had books, old magazines we had- they had true love "
OH they used to have these love magazines that had these stories in them 
They'd have stories about um when um 
Husbands that were rude to their wives and how they got out of that
And they'd have love stories
They'd have but different stories in a book- in a magazine 
And she would read those within her imagination would soar and she would write stories 
And but you know but I would like to- I used to like to play ball I would like to play sports
Um and like I said we played a lot outside 
We didn't have indoor things 
We um we had to play church when we were little 
" But because that was all we knew,"
we would go to church.
So you would play church or you would play school or you played house.
"Then we got older and you could play sports,"
"and different types of ball games,"
"and go to ball games,"
and that kind of thing.
"But,"
"and quiet times,"
read.
"I used to like to sit on the porch,"
we had rockers out there.
And that’s what I want to go back and get me some rockers.
"But now that times have changed,"
"that,"
"I don’t want—I want my rockers to stay on my porch,"
okay?
"But I could just rock for hours,"
"and rock,"
"and rock,"
"and watch traffic go by,"
"and speak to people,"
that kind of thing.
Rock myself to sleep and then wake up and rock some more.
"With the whole playing church thing,"
so I take it religion was very important in the community?
"Uh-huh,"
yes.
Excuse me.
My great grandmother was a founder of the church I attend now.
he was one of the founders.
"And my father was a deacon in the church,"
and we all attended church.
What church was it she founded?
It’s Johnson Chapel Missionary Baptist Church.
What do you consider the best advice you’ve given your sons throughout the years?
"To be responsible,"
honest.
Excuse me.
"Tell the truth,"
"even if you get in trouble,"
"but tell the truth,"
"because I need to know,"
"I need to be able to believe you,"
"I have trust you,"
and I have to trust you to be honest with me.
"Be responsible,"
and by all means you are your brother’s keeper.
Treat people like you want to be treated.
"We would drive through the neighborhood at night and I’d be waving,"
"and my son said,"
“Do you know that person?
 “No.
 “Why did you speak?
”They’re there. They're there
Why not?
 So you treat people like you want to be treated.
"And the old saying—if you send no ships out,"
no ships will come in.
So you never know where your blessing is.
"And if you can bless someone,"
you bless them.
You bless them with a smile or kind word or word encouragement.
"It doesn’t take money to do everything,"
you know.
You can be kind to someone just by opening a door.
"Or,"
"you never know how you meet people,"
or where they are when you meet them.
"So try to leave them better than the way that you met them,"
you know.
So every morning I get up I ask to be a blessing to someone.
Any of those lessons did you get from your father?
"Oh yes,"
that’s what we talked about last Sunday.
"We made a circle and we lit a candle,"
and we had one white balloon and put it in the middle.
"And it was all kind of impromptu,"
but kind of fit together.
And my sister—because my sister was very adamant—she wanted to do something for my dad’s birthday to commemorate the 100th year.
"So we were here for,"
"like I said for a family reunion,"
"and I told her,"
well let’s do it now because everybody won’t be able to come back next month.
we did it in May the last weekend in May.
"And so we made a circle and my oldest niece,"
"the one that’s my dad’s oldest grandchild,"
said a prayer.
"And that was one thing my father could do,"
my father could pray.
"And when I say he could pray,"
"it was so comforting to me that,"
because it was so genuine when he said a prayer.
And my niece used to aggravate my dad so much but
"So she said a prayer,"
"and my oldest sister said that—we were all in a circle—we were just going to light this candle and we would pass it around and if each of would say how our dad had,"
"you know,"
"what letters he had left with us,"
how he had enhanced our lives.
"And she started off,"
"and she talked about his love,"
"his love for family,"
"his love for people,"
his love for other people.
"I your car broke down,"
he would fix your car.
He was a jack of all trades.
"He could do things electrical,"
"washing machines,"
"sewing machines,"
"the car,"
anything.
And—but he—you know he didn’t charge people.
"Somebody could by here and want to borrow,"
he’d lone it.
He’d take people different places that didn’t have cars.
"And he was a wonderful man,"
"he was a wonderful father,"
and she was saying you know the fact that we never heard him swear.
Never said a curse word;
never.
"And that was something to be proud of,"
because his daughter can’t say that.
"But he never got loud,"
"he never argued,"
"you know,"
"he was just a mild mannered,"
easy going person.
He raised us and when it got to me I talked about responsibility.
"He could’ve have—in his late thirties—left us here with his mother and gone off and lived a different life but,"
"he chose to raise us,"
you know raise us to educate us and just love us.
"And he finally married again later,"
"but he waited until we were grown,"
grown and with grandchildren.
So all the grandchildren talked about how he had affected their lives.
"And even there a couple of people that were not even our relatives,"
but they talked about him and said wonderful things about his character.
"And he was just a– he was my daddy,"
"but had he not been my dad,"
I would’ve still liked him as a person.
Not many people get to say that.
Yeah but he was a blessing to us and we let him know that too.
"We loved him,"
"he loved us,"
"we knew that,"
and he knew we loved him.
Let’s start going through these things I have to fill out.
Your middle name?
I use my maiden name as my middle name now.
But I was Patricia Anne Wells so now I’m Patricia Wells Burnett.
"Okay,"
and how do you spell it?
W-E-L-L-S
Okay.
Is it getting a little warm in here to you?
No I think it’s fine.
Hmm maybe it’s me having a private summer.
Date of birth?
"October 25,"
48
"And,"
here it says principle occupation so-?
I’m a senior clerical assistant.
"Now I retire July 9th,"
for the second time I’m flying on this time.
Have—you’ve always lived in this house then?
"No I grew up here as a child,"
but then when I married I moved.
I lived in Alachua for ten years or so.
Uh-huh.
Then I came back in 79.
"Okay so approximately,"
1970 to 1979 in Alachua?
"Yes,"
mhmm.
"Okay,"
education history.
So you went to Lincoln High.
"Lincoln High,"
and I went to Santa Fe because that was the first year they’d opened Santa Fe.
And they had come to Lincoln and so they would have this nursing program that would start in September of 1966.
Well it had not started.
"And I went from 1966 to 1967 but taking basic courses and I said,"
“unh-uh.
 I was just tired of that.
I wanted to do something else so I left.
But I did go back to Santa Fe and took a Human Service Aid;
it was a program that they had.
I worked with mental health students in the mental health field.
"And I liked that,"
and I liked social work too.
I did like that.
"But it was,"
"you know,"
I couldn’t separate myself from the job.
I worked with children and I worked in Starkee—of all places—I had to drive from Alachua to Starkee.
And the things that I ran into were foreign to me until that time.
"I had not dealt with incest or things,"
"or suicide,"
or things like that.
And these young children coming up and they’re having to deal with some things.
And it’s like I wanted to take them home.
"I hated to leave them,"
but in one session you don’t– I didn’t have the miracle in my pocket.
"So after about six months,"
I had to just give it up because it was just too stressful for me.
So you went to Santa Fe from 1966 to 1967?
1967
"Yeah,"
I just stayed a year.
So now the work history.
So you—after graduating high school what were your jobs?
"I uh Well,"
"I did my first job was a babysitting job,"
but that was the summer I was going to be a senior.
Oh.
Okay.
Then after graduation I worked with the Head Start Program at Duval.
And I enjoyed that but I still did not want to be a teacher.
But I liked the children.
And around what year was that?
That was in 1966.
Then after the Duval?
The next little job—you want all of those little jobs?
Just any of the ones you want to list on here for the record and anything-
Because I worked in the school board for half a minute.
I went over to Williams and worked in the cafeteria um 
Um that was only a couple of months
Finished out the school term and I learned how to cut chicken 
I learned how to make potato salad 
"Anyway,"
but after that I—what did I do?
I got a job with the university.
"Department of Anatomy,"
and that was in 1968.
And I worked in that lab;
we had lab rats—our lab animals were rats and monkeys.
And now I can’t remember what the study was back then.
"But I stayed there for a year and then I got married,"
"left,"
"and when I decided to come back to go back to the university,"
"I didn’t get a job right away,"
so I worked in Bently’s in the stock room for two or three years—something like that;
I can’t remember.
"Then I got this job at,"
they decided they were going to open up a mental health unit in Alachua.
"And that’s what I was saying about things coming from the university,"
"coming,"
"they were leery of it,"
coming out there.
It did not materialize when I was there.
"Now I think they have a mental health office up there,"
a part of a meridian or something.
"But at that time,"
they were supposed to open up a clinic to facilitate that area.
people would have to come all the way to Gainesville.
And when I went out to try to recruit people I was supposed to try to recruit people to do something—people were leery of it.
"You know,"
"they’d say,"
"“Oh,"
the university is always coming out here starting something.
Stay a minute and be gone.
 So we didn’t have no faith in them coming to open up anything.
So we’re trying to identify either the needs in that area.
And since I had to work with children they sent me to Starke because there was nothing in Alachua.
But I was hired for Alachua so then I had to drive from Alachua to Starke every morning.
"And that was stressful,"
"having to fight those big glam rock trucks on the highway back,"
"you know,"
back up in there.
Then I had to stay in Starke for family group sessions every Wednesday night;
I didn’t get out until 9 o’clock.
And there was no back way to Alachua that’s safe.
"I had to come all the way to Gainesville to 39th and then go back to Alachua,"
so that made it long.
And the next morning get tight back up and go to Starke again.
So I worked there for 6 months or so and I couldn’t take it.
"Then I was offered—a got a little interim job with school board again,"
with LRC And I was there for about 3 months and they offered me a position.
And at the same time the university called—I had a friend that worked at the university—she was the one that asked me if I wanted to work in the lab again.
"I said,"
“Oh yes.
" Because this other job with LRC,"
"I was cleaning film,"
"and signing out film to schools,"
"and things like that,"
but just—but anyway.
So I went back to the university and I stayed for thirty years.
Have you been—well besides choir now—a member of any organizations around the community?
I’m in Crime Watch—a member of that.
"Hmm,"
oh it’s been so long.
"With the church,"
with the church youth department.
And with our church we have a district area that—so I work with youth in the district as a youth director.
"And I do vacation bible school,"
"that’s not an organization,"
but.
Lincoln High Alumni Association.
Can’t think of anything else.
Is there any awards or honors you’ve received?
"Well through the church I have quite a few plaques for,"
"you know,"
for service.
I have one from the University of Florida.
We have an Afro-American group that we formed;
all employees from the university that worked in the labs and as we retired we would get a plaque and all of the names would be on it as we retired.
And I have that and trophies for—but mostly through the religious field.
Religious history.
What’s your current denomination?
Baptist.
And the church you’re a member of?
Johnson Chapel Missionary Baptist.
"Any other,"
"besides singing in the choir,"
any other activities or hobbies you do now?
What the heck was that?
"Whatever it was,"
I’m closing my door.
"So yeah,"
the hobbies and activities.
Reading.
I take swimming lessons for whatever reason.
Oh gosh. I like to go to the gym. 
Work out. 
Um I used to sew 
I cut out the front and the back and never two 
I go ahead and try to talk to the instructor could you put the zipper on this please 
But um I have-I'll get some hobbies now that I have free time 
Because my time retired- when people know you're retired would you do this? 
Would you do that? Would you take me this place? 
So I use that time doing more social work 
I take people to the doctor.
I helped one or two people that was on the lifeline. 
Because they had those things in their house where they would cause they lived alone and if they got in distress they could press a button 
And then they would call me to see if if it's a real emergency or whatever 
So I would take um take on that responsibility 
But that's through my church but um I'll get some hobbies 
Do you have any favorite quotes or sayings?
Um well immediately a bible verse came to mind.
"And that is,"
“Trust in the Lord with all thine heart and lean not unto thine own understanding.
 That’s one and mostly scriptures come to mind because I need them to encourage me a lot of times.
What was—what’s your partner’s full name?
My ex-husband’s?
Ex-husband.
What was his name?
"Oh,"
gosh.
Varon.
V-A-R-O-N Do you want his middle name too?
Middle initial is T Burnett.
"Senior,"
because I have a junior.
"Yes,"
okay.
Do you remember his date of birth?
Uh-huh.
"March 30,"
1944
And where was he born in?
High Springs.
What did he do for a living?
Now he worked in—we started out—he was working in a lab also.
And then he left the university and started working in community service.
"He was over Community Action Agency,"
"he was over the Cedar Program,"
"he worked with— not DCF—but those kind of programs that were federal programs that would put people back to work,"
"or give people traits,"
or would match people with jobs;
job opportunities and things like that.
"Like there was the Hands Project,"
different projects like that.
"And then your sons,"
junior?
"Uh-huh,"
he’s the youngest though.
And what’s his date of birth?
"12 9,"
1969
And he was born in Gainesville?
Uh-huh.
Both of them?
Uh-huh.
And what’s the other one’s name?
Alfonso.
Do you have any grandchildren yet?
"Yes,"
I have two grandsons.
All boys.
Yes.
And then your parents.
What was your father’s name?
Lorenzo.
Is it L-O-R-E-N-Z-O?
Uh-huh.
Wells.
W-E-L-L-S
Date of birth?
June 16 10
And his date of death?
"March uh 3 11,"
1996
And where was he born?
We thought he was born in Rochelle but found out he was born in Palatka.
Palatka.
And passed away here in Gainesville?
"Yes,"
mhmm.
And what was his occupation?
He was a butler.
"And that was one thing that we learned,"
you can’t generalize people or situations.
"You can’t make a general statement because the family that he worked for,"
"if it had not been for them,"
we would have been in dire strings.
But they were the Baker family.
I don’t know if you’ve heard of the Baker Hardware area pits.
But it doing a lot of construction over there in Depot?
"Okay,"
South Main.
Anyway but this family owned a lot of property.
"And but so my daddy was a chauffeur,"
"he was a butler,"
like I said he was a jack of all trades.
"He built a greenhouse,"
"and he did landscaping,"
and he did everything.
And he was their chauffeur;
he would take them—there were two sisters—and take them to visit family in Georgia or different places.
And what did he do?
"But this family—our family—was a very,"
they were entrepreneurs.
"My grandmother had—back in the day—our great grandmother,"
"they took in took in washing,"
they took in laundry.
so when we came home from school on a Monday we knew what we had to do.
And it was laundry day.
"But that’s the original house over there—and they came from Rochelle—they had that house and then they bought this property,"
and built this house.
"And my dad had a car at—as a matter of fact,"
he had a car at 17.
I just happened to have this picture re-done but—his car.
That’s my dad.
Wow.
Mhmm.
Well this one is even older because that was a convertible.
"Wow,"
very nice.
"Yeah but anyway,"
"he had,"
"you know,"
they had things and they worked hard for them.
"And like I said,"
"he sent my sister to college,"
"well,"
sent us all.
We had—I could’ve gone further but ugh he sent me to Tennessee I was supposed to go to Tennessee state but I'm a homebody and I don't wanna be that far from home 
My sister graduated from Tennessee state and then she went on to Michigan and got her masters but 
She's the more adventurous type 
I'm not 
And so I was the one that stayed home 
And I- bring me the babies and I'd keep the children and I'd cook the food 
And you know that kind of thing
But in every family there you know what you can count on for each one of your children 
It's not like you care more for anyone 
You could distribute responsibility to 
Because you know who you could count on and what for 
She always swore that I had more brain but I didn't 
" But anyway,"
"I enjoyed-like I said,"
I’ve enjoyed my journey.
"The family your father worked for,"
how do you spell their name?
They were the Bakers.
Missus Fanada and Laura Baker.
And then your mother’s name?
Pauline.
Mhmm.
And her date of birth?
10 17.
Oh god yeah 17.
I drew a blank there for a moment.
And when did she pass away?
"October 6,"
1953
Yes.
And um where was she born?
Here in Gainesville.
Gainesville?
Mhmm.
And she passed away here?
Mhmm.
Alright
And then your sisters’ names.
My oldest sister is Catherine.
With a K? Or a C? 
C Mhmm.
My mother was Catherine Pauline and she’s Catherine Joyce.
And her birthday is?
"Date of birth,"
"7 18,"
1945
Was she the one that passed away?
"No,"
"no,"
"the middle one passed away,"
Gwendolyn.
How do you spell it?
G-W-E-N-D-O-L-Y-N And you know what?
Catherine was born in 44.
In 1944?
Mhmm.
And Gwen was born in 1945.
"She was born on August 22,"
1945
"Okay,"
and when did she pass away?
"She passed away January 3,"
93. 1993.
And all of you were born here in Gainesville?
Mhmm at Alachua General.
Alachua General.
Mhmm.
"Well,"
"Missus Burnett,"
thank you for having me here in your home.
Is there anything I failed to ask you that you’d like to mention for the interview?
"No,"
I’ll think of it when you get right about down.
Think of something else but no I think that’s about it.
I can’t think of anything else.
That’s about it I guess.
"Oh one thing I did want to mention—about Lincoln—because I grew up and didn’t have a mother,"
"you know,"
the age of the other girls.
"That when I was homecoming queen and so I needed to go out and purchase some things,"
"you know,"
to get ready.
"So my sponsor- homeroom sponsor,"
"like I said,"
it was like community.
My homeroom sponsor came over and took me shopping;
"asked my daddy if it was ok if she took me shopping,"
"and did the motherly things that,"
"you know,"
that I needed to do.
And made sure I had everything I needed.
And then there were other ladies in the neighborhood that—from my church and around—that just kind of pitched in.
"We just all became kind of like family,"
"you know,"
just being around whenever we needed somebody.
But my dad—my dad was just a foundation for us.
"He—I could talk to him about anything,"
"anything and everything,"
even when I became a woman or a young lady.
"So it was just—he was just a blessing to us because,"
"like I said,"
"it could have worked out totally different,"
"totally,"
but it did not.
And I was just so blessed to have him;
to have had him.
And when he got sick he came over—because he had remarried and they were remodeling their home—and so they came over here and stayed with me for a while.
"So I had him for like a couple of months,"
"you know,"
real close right here.
"And so I tried to make things comfortable for him,"
"and he,"
"you know,"
"he’d just said how proud of us he was,"
"you know,"
how we had grown up and provided for him and for ourselves and for our families.
"And it was just—it was good,"
it was good.
What did he die of?
He had lung cancer.
Lung cancer.
Mhmm.
My grandfather died of that too.
Yeah.
But he was on Extra Strength Tylenol for pain so he was truly blessed.
"yeah because he didn’t have to go through all of that debilitating—he lost weight,"
"he didn’t lose his spirit,"
and he was cognizant all the way you know.
And it was just like we were there at the hospital one minute because he wasn’t getting enough oxygen.
"So they,"
"you know,"
they gave him some oxygen and they said we’d probably go on oxygen for the next six weeks or six months or so.
And we left the hospital and came home and we just talked right up until the time we walked out.
"And he just kept saying,"
“Oh thank you for everything.
" I said,"
"“Don’t thank me,"
I thank you.
" And usually my older sister that likes to run things called and I usually tell her,"
"“Don’t bother daddy,"
" you know,"
“let him rest” or something like that.
But that night all of the sudden I wanted her here.
But she was coming the next day so she had to leave her lesson plans and things like that.
"And she just kind of strange and when she called the hospital and I let her speak to him and he told her he loved her and,"
"you know,"
that kind of thing.
"So when we left he said,"
“Well have a goodnight.
 You know in good spirits and everything and within an hour we had to go back.
"But I was thankful for God’s swift mercy because he didn’t have to suffer,"
"and suffer,"
and suffer.
"But anyway,"
"but he was,"
he was my daddy.
Well I thank you for having me.
"Oh,"
I thank you for coming and I hope I was able to say something that made sense to somebody somewhere.
But to just let you know what it was like growing up in Gainsville back in those days 
But because we walked because we lived here we had to walk to Duval then walk to Lincoln 
My sister- my older sister was able to go to all of the schools 
She went to all-we went to Baroquin schools starting out 
Our preschool was a Baroquin school over across town that was now I realize 
Came out of or was born out of I think out of Holy Trinity 
But we had you know it was all Black 
And um when we left there you could go some kids went to school up to 4th or 5th grade 
And they had in one big room sectioned off this is-this row is 1st 
"That row and you get all instruction so and at that time, they would move students up "
If you were able to get the work you were able to be skipped to another grade and go to a higher grade 
And that's what happened with both of my sisters they graduated a year ahead of themselves according to their age
And um but I wasn't so lucky 
"Uh when I started 1st grade, they just opened Duval for the first time "
It had been a one room schooling house but they had built this red brick building excuse me that had covered 1st through 6th 
So but in the mean time when I was over in the preschool 
And my sister was four years older than me 
"When she left there she went to um Williams and then over to A Quinn, which is now A Quinn but it was A Quinn then too "
But um she went to school there one year here one over there 
And then Duval opened when she was in 6th grade so she was done here and I was in 1st grade 
And um so she was able to go to all the schools we had and she was proud of that 
She had done all of them 
"But because we lived right here we had to walk to school,"
"which wasn’t a bad thing,"
"but a lot of those kids came on buses,"
"like I said,"
"came from Micanopy,"
"Arredondo,"
and we eventually started getting students from Hawthorne to come over.
So that’s how we were able to get to know people in the community.
You used to would know people only when you went to church.
If you had some–like on fifth Sundays we’d have a big meeting when different churches would come together and have one service.
You would get to meet new people that way other than who you deal with at school.
"But then when they started bringing all of these other children in,"
"your friendship circle grew,"
you know.
So um that’s part of history that won’t be repeated.