Text	Person/num. agreement
And this was at Doc To, this was in 1967.	0
[I was her caretaker.]	0
What I would like to see is some of my old schoolmates but a lot of them died out you know, a lot of them.	0
Well, it was walking a straight line knowing that my boss had got a book on disciplinary action handbook of the University of Florida; tried to see what she could write me up.	0
I said—I’m sorry, I was thinking about when J.F. Kennedy got killed.	0
They were small; I probably did.	0
I'm sure there was some funds provided.	1
So I don’t remember seeing anybody that I was in Vietnam with.	0
[How are you feeling right now, seeing all these people and listening to the laughter?]	0
So I only seen my immediate family, like my grandmomma, my granddaddy, my mom , and probably my sister.	0
And the support that you got from your teachers was probably a big part of that, too.	0
It sounds like this place was a community, like more so than a school, even though it is a school, but it’s also part of the community.	0
I was just so happy to be back.	0
There was a two - story house there	0
One was in our church, Methodist Church.	0
My father told him he needed to be—he was very very good with his hands—he wanted him to go into industrial education: carpentry, cabinet making, shoe repair and that kind of thing.	0
[He had one child from his first marriage.]	0
That was nice.	0
I might've told you this, I told somebody 'cause I was pleased with it.	0
and I went there with the idea that I was going to study piano under a professors who had traveled and studied abroad with Arthur .	0
They didn’t care.	0
And man , this stuff go way back.	1
It could be that the difference which is being achieved is here from here to here.	0
When I was in college, we would come from FAMU and get off at the railroad track on a Greyhound bus.	0
But also didn’t put the talent in the red, so I had to manage that and I wish we gotten more people into the town hall meetings, to understand what all it take to do that.	0
I also finished my high school education, which I got my diploma through Jerkins.	0
Okay I didn’t have the opportunity of meeting my dad’s dad, but my grandfather which was my mother’s father I was raised up around him.	0
[Well, I was a football player, basketball player, and I ran track.]	0
We also wanted to learn about our history.	0
See I want you to do anything that you want to do to him. All I ask of you is leave breath in his body .”	0
[He seemed very, like he was in the wrong place.]	0
What was that day like?	0
[Most of my life, about six years I was away in South Carolina, but other than that, Perry.]	0
Pharmacist.	0
But there was things going on back the day when I got out, back in the 70s and 80s, that I couldn't handle a lot of things openly.	1
So you talked about your great times that you experienced in college, did you ever experience any hardships as a student athlete, like whether its racism or any other milestones?	0
[And he would also, sort of took care of her—her needs, taking her, driving her to the grocery store, doctors, or wherever she needs to go.]	0
I know in the early 1800s there were serious racial issues in North Florida and Gainesville and that really took shape in the University.	0
So, you got an opportunity to be in leadership roles and it just made you think, I can accomplish stuff because people around me was telling me.	1
I said, 'The areas of Business could be like area of transportation, area of Finance, area of Marketing, area of Accounting, Public Finance. Well you have to choose one.'	0
So we go up on this hill.	0
Who are your parents?	0
and then she cultivated it when I was in seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth grades.	0
That was something I just had to pass in order to graduate, but then it became a functional part of my life not only from his encouragement, but from the negative stigma that was attached to African American men in Broward County that they cannot write.	0
We never had a combat consultation at night that was always day time.	0
Okay , I went to school in Putnam Hall Florida which is about seven miles from Melrose.	0
[And she was very kind and caring, yeah.]	0
[Also, our pastor's church is right across the street.]	0
I guess it was either New Year ’s of 67 or New Year ’s of 68.	0
Mistakes are being made on the battle field, mistakes are being made everywhere.	0
[And they were from the Jacksonville area?]	0
What they did was instill in us, they made us believe that we really could accomplish anything we wanted to do.	0
but anyway it was fun.	0
I won’t say the first, but I can remember the teachers that were there.	0
And the last teacher in the woodworking was a guy named Mr. Ford, can’t think of his first name .	0
And I really developed that from that lady telling me to look her in her eyes when I was talking to her.	0
So, I learned to read, write—whatever it is—to prepare myself, because they want more for me than what they had.	0
Yeah, he sounds like my sister.	0
And so  excuse me, how many years did it take you to learn English if you don’t mind me asking?	0
Where were they?	0
[Saturday was cleaning day.]	0
We talked an awful lot about High Springs this time, I hope that next time we speak we’ll get a chance to maybe talk about some of the music that you’ve liked, maybe the 40s.	0
What did you think were those slight differences between going to school in the North and going to school in the South, as you experienced it here?	0
[So we was so different, things we did and things they did, we didn't know nothing about until when you know,]	1
I mean, it was in dismal shape.	0
Hopefully, with the event this weekend, we can get community support.	0
I got a job in sterile supply which was upgrade.	0
Well sometimes we had to speak , but most of the time the president of the class, he was normally there so he had my back.	0
It was a grocery store .	0
They were better off than their parents, and they taught us that that's the only way to help our race to be better.	0
I don’t know how long it was, but I got out.	0
And I thank Jerkins for my band instructor, which was my adopted godfather, took me up under his wing, and really showed me how to play the trumpet, because that was his major instrument.	0
And what was your grandma’s name?	0
Okay so just the whole area was their playground.	0
Before he was famous, he came through and just played an after-football social or something?	0
Yes, yes, yes they were.	0
[I'm just glad to be able to take this interview, to let you know the more about what I know about the legacy, and the things that's going on in Taylor County.]	1
As a matter of fact, when I got promoted to the ninth grade, I guess I was the teacher’s pet.	0
He traced his family back to the Sudan in the 1600s.	0
Ms. Galbraith, who was an important teacher at our school when I was there invited me and naturally, I’m right here	0
I say down there because it was lower than the rest of the campus.	0
and I went on outside, and I just played to the flies or whatever was flying around.	0
Because you were drafted.	0
Like they going straight out there somewhere else, you ain’t got nothing to do but you wash your hand.	0
So, do you remember what it was like growing up in the South before desegregation?	0
And I’ve heard that the football team was also really good, which probably helped—the band was holding its own anyway, but that gave them a place to perform.	0
When and where were you born?	0
So when such instances get so bad that the people feel the need to establish such commissions and they have the support to do so, it brings hope.	0
That’s what I was trained, but they gave me an M -16 when I got there.	0
Because they knew that they was getting big in all of their athletes.	1
And there was some kind of string bean and potatoes.	0
[well I wasn't in my class was in 1949 so we wasn't integrated then.]	1
[Or were you strangers to each other?]	0
She was old and she walked by here going to town.	0
It was eighty something one month	0
About twelve of them was here a week ago and I .	1
I said, 'I hate to contradict you, but he learned how to write his name in kindergarten.'	0
And I would call him and he was a minister.	0
So, here you have an assisted living here, you have daycare there, you have the Boys and Girls Club on the other end.	0
But you were seriously injured?	0
[Because it's not something that people are writing about or talking about in history books so for me as a student and researcher, I'm hearing about it really for the first time from y'all.]	0
Who was that?	0
[Okay what is her name?]	0
And she stopped teaching and told us what geometry was and we passed geometry, most of us, everyday going home and you can see the geometry.	0
[And I was willing to demonstrate to show that I was against the segregation.]	0
Absolutely because we are a dying breed, you know, there are no more graduates coming out of the school.	0
I tell her not to, but she won’t listen to me.	0
So let’s talk a little bit about the schooling that you got at Jerkins, because I’ve spoken with several people that went to an all-Black high school in Gainesville, and they said it wasn’t just schooling like arithmetic and reading, but it was like a life’s education.	0
[And we were driving, driving in the car, I was with my first husband's family, that's how it was because they were from Maryland.]	0
I think I’ve sent them before at an event for they were maybe stationed with a poster board, but do you mind elaborating a little bit more about the purpose of this organization and	0
And we can’t look at one race and say this of one race and say that.	0
Do you mind elaborating on what you mean by there being some shortcomings in that area?	0
[And like I was telling everybody: everybody's not a paid member, but everybody's a member, because everybody's in with the fight that we go up against.]	0
[And, who are your mom and dad?]	0
Your friend who was killed, you saw that?	0
His name was DC .	0
Because it was the education, not because it was dangerous to walk home, or ?	0
So, let me ask you this question: was it worth it to go to Vietnam and fight for your country?	0
And I met Ms. Armbrister didn't know her in Perry but I met her in Broward County.	0
Vogel’s was?	0
[Ethel Penn, her name is Ethel Penn.]	0
She was all about education.	0
There was like an open street market and she knew about the prices and she was telling me about how hard times were and how hard times were getting at that time, and how businesses could get pretty bad.	0
Her mother name was Elouise Jackson, and her father name was Lawrence Grier.	0
[And the father was James W McCullum—the lawyer.]	0
So it wasn’t a full motion, besides Alabama, it was pretty much just resettling at different locations in the same area.	0
[Her and Ms  was masters of reverse psychology.]	1
But he owned his own business and he did well.	0
It was interesting and I loved to be in the club then.	0
This one is making ten points higher on every test than this one is but instead of teaching achievement, why not measure for advancement?	0
It was a more upscale camera than a little camera.	0
Well they had what was called “ primer” which is kindergarten.	0
I mean I’m born in something like this.	0
I got one sister.	0
That’s why I feel like having a support system is really important whenever you’re trying to enhance and progress yourself into something.	0
[Taylor County is one of the racist towns in the South still racist in the South.]	0
So I could have went back where I was , but I wanted to advance.	0
Nathaniel Hank was the only tenor saxophone they had at the school.	0
What was the name of the school in Putnam Hall that you went to?	0
But things, well, I don’t know if it’s just my age or what, I don’t know what it is, but it doesn’t have the sweetness it used to have.	0
And even if you had told, he’d’ve punished everybody anyway.	0
[So they did not share domicile?]	0
Especially my parents, my uncles, and aunts, some of them were born in home.	0
There were things that my wife—and she’ ll never under stand, because she haven’t been there, done that, and I hope nobody experience stuff that I experienced .	1
I was in Winn Dixie one night and this girl came in and she had her husband with her	0
And that’s why my granddaddy came in and his brothers and his sisters and my granddaddy grew up and he married a Cherokee.	0
And so you talked about having no experience, no connections, do you feel like there were programs or there were resources that were available at UF that shaped your experience?	0
I was in a church way before I met her, even though I might have been straddling the fence, years ago.	0
If a kid was getting free lunch and she knew it, she didn't treat them no different from nobody else.	0
[It was a short marriage, just about three years that's all.]	0
Because there were no additional measures to make sure that the past actions that were being investigated upon would not reoccur.	0
I take the pictures when they got back at the end when they dispersed.	0
Yeah, it was a nice prom.	0
For example, when you came back, there was no parade or anything like that, I’m sure.	0
So therefore—but also listen.	0
What was the role of education?	0
I know my parents wanted to see the A, but I’m like as long as I did well in the class	0
But it was really just typical recess type things.	0
So, none of my children are here to carry on any of the legacy or knowledge and stuff that we have here.	0
I didn’t have any bad experiences there but the cost of a college education is a little too much.	0
Unloaded guns, of course, but anybody else wouldn’t have known that the guns were not loaded.	0
So growing up in Fort White, what kind of jobs were available for like African Americans here?	0
So I was out there in the jungles for probably about six and a half months before I got wounded.	0
For a long time, there were kind of two separate worlds.	0
“She told me that she was just walking in the hall and you sent her home.”	0
I don’t have anybody — I have you— I don’t have any people to talk to anymore, my English’ll get poor.	0
"Because, did I explain to you how there's teachers in Alachua County that don't know how to teach the Civil Rights because they just got what's in the book and they're like 'I don't think that's all there is to it."""	0
I look back over years that things wasn’t as plentiful as they are now are	1
But they made sure that you was well enough that if you stretch your arm —I had wire stitches —that they wouldn’t pull.	1
And, were you too young to really know what was going on with all the burnings and all that stuff.	0
The tribe of the Israelites is a speckled bird of many colors: some black , some brown, some light complexion, some like you cook a cake on one side and unturn—that mean a light complexion.	0
The purpose of this interview is to discuss briefly the life of Dr. John C. Rawls and his thoughts on Lincoln High School and how integration influenced the education there and education in general.	0
He come out of a place called Rutherford, Georgia.	1
And if it hadn’t have been for these four walls, when I was here as a junior in that cafeteria there, I started into music, probably when I was in seventh grade, playing flute, and then I came back to trumpet.	0
[Health Education and Welfare?]	0
Two things or two places I did not have to ask permission to go and that was daily school; that was a duty and Sunday school; that was a duty.	0
[I'm speaking with Mr. Walter Bishop.]	0
Is this over at Santa Fe?	0
Yes, in time the truth commission provided hope.	0
I mentioned, she’s like my daughter because I got her in my life when she was six, so I’m like her daddy.	0
Okay, yeah, that is kind of a gap from 63 to 72.	0
Where that other church is now that was our church.	0
It’s just, I am who I am, and you kind of forget what—did you go through your life being very aware of the fact that you were Black?	0
No matter what it was, we appreciated what we had to know from what they was telling us.	1
Druggist.	0
Now when we left off, we had a last interview, we talked about your life here in High Springs and just if you could remind those who will be listening of your date of birth .	0
[This is part of a family reunion being held in the city of Gainesville and we are at the Last Chance something.]	0
Then when he went to sign up to study, t he South Florida coach had already picked his team and never saw my son play but he signed him up to keep him from going to Yukon or keep him from going to Cedar Keys or some other place.	0
After my grandfather had a stroke, after he retired maybe like when he was sixty -three he had a stroke.	0
It was getting worse.	0
Because I can remember in these schools you had a Black History Month.	0
[Well you wouldn't be out at night you know when night comes, you you're supposed to be in the house and so it wasn't too much to talk about it was just like hush hush so.]	0
Well during that, you had to come up and it was a struggle for Black peoples to come up, but as time went on, years went on, and you proved to them that you was determined to work and you did a good job, best that you could, they soon— soon they would upgrade you.	1
And I said, “Now, I want you to talk to him very firmly and don’t laugh, don’t smile, but you tell him that this the last time you coming out here.	0
[And he was a few years older than I was.]	0
"Yeah, and her sister has a PhD and works at North Carolina."""""	0
But the old one was on Main St reet?	0
I didn’t know you were tapin’ me, I could’ve looked better.	0
Ebony is not going to be on the test .	0
Two of my children were christened in that same church, here in Gainesville.	0
My grandma, I call her —my grandma’s name was Meselite	0
Went to Morrison ’s.	0
Okay well I’d like to ask you more about your education when you came back from Vietnam , because we were gonna talk about the Santa Fe college.	0
There was a lady that worked here that was on the program the day Dr. Rosa Lee Hill, who was not able to come today, she was our music instructor and she, also, was the guidance counselor.	0
Even in the 1900’s after UF’s official campus was established, those same racial issues and racial tensions still roamed free in Gainesville.	0
She was an asthmatic I should say.	0
That you would stand up and recite them, is that what happened in your English class as well?	0
[I got a girl named Sharita Hope Demps which is a lawyer in Atlanta and, then, I have a son named Cory Demps that is a student at the vocational school studying welding right now.]	0
He was on the sidewalk, but he came to the door and he said, “Come on May.”	0
There's been so much crazy racial stuff going on in Perry that you think of this place as how could you possibly be sheltered here?	0
There’s actually  family, they were called the Watsons.	0
And now they look at us, old, and whatever we've done they feel somewhat of an accomplishment.	0
Yeah I think that within itself is very powerful, especially growing up in the life that, you know.	0
Well, I think what it does for the people that are currently here, especially the young people, when they see the graduates, their family member friends that have gone away and kids don't even know they exist and all of a sudden they see these people come back.	0
She can get groceries, ” ‘cause there were two or three grocery stores downtown.	0
A lot of times, family members in our community, would take on that responsibility and raise those children.	0
Yeah, I think I was a senior in school, and I had my first job working at the Bloodworth Drug Store downtown.	0
It was not my place to say the negative things about him.	0
And when you thinking back, his eyeball was that big, like, “Whoa!	0
When you say it was the way of life, could you elaborate for someone that didn’t live through those times?	0
The wire stitches are loose.	0
She was the main one in there	0
I remember you mentioned —you said you mentioned the church being kind of down the road, was it you walked to church?	0
And did you ever go out with a lieutenant , or was it always just a sergeant?	0
On behalf of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program , I would like to thank you again for participating, and then offer you the opportunity for final privilege.	0
And so are you taking any courses that teaches you about African American history?	1
Well maybe like Joe Lewis , but I wasn’t heavy into the sports.	0
But in, see , maybe after over there three months —and it was a bad time to get over there, because they have a season , they call it the “monsoon season, ” where it rains every day.	0
This is your daughter?	0
Oh no, see , I didn’t work around villages.	0
My mom, Gladys L. Watson, she was one of the earlier classes.	0
[You were obviously picketing.]	0
So I don’t care how you can do it, just get an education.	0
His father was the head custodian at Duval Elementary School.	0
Her birth was just about 20 miles down the Archer Road—not the Archer Road, but the Williston Road, at a place called Raleigh, North Carolina .	0
We had a pneumonia episode here.	0
When you look at the world as a little kid, we used to leave and go to Madison, Florida in the country my great granddaddy	0
So what happened every time I played basketball —and if you wanna cut me short —I get to talking , “You can cut me short any time you’re ready to change it on something , because I’m almost at the end of this. ”	0
These little places are about thirty miles apart and it’s a big difference.	0
You got your family and raise your family in all of that so they could do more than just own their own house.	0
So my last job I held, I was a pharmacy technician.	0
[And the NAACP told us to do this.]	0
Do you know his name?	0
But today’s society, I mean—integration was good.	0
And what was his name?	0
[I really don't know because I was ten months old when she died.]	0
So that was back when I was twelve so it had to be in the fifties.	0
I got burn out when I was first married.	0
Now, Madison is more conservative than Perry.	0
So do you remember any lessons in school that you knew you had this White textbook that was passed down from the White school?	0
In fact, even though these McDonald ’s were all Methodists, they had two preachers in that family.	0
If we went up here to the corner and took a right past the house where Winston was under, and you were walking down toward 441, what was on that side of the street right there with those businesses?	0
he wore French cuffs and he always had his initials on his sleeve.	0
Do you recall your parents’ birthdays?	0
Everybody wasn’t going to the same class at the same time, you know.	0
So, it's interesting to me that without the advances of the technology and all of the resources that came to bear in this last forty years, the accomplishments of the graduates pale in comparison to the forty years prior to, and that's an indictment of something.	0
But my parents also raised seven other children, within, you know, the last twenty to thirty years.	0
and that was really helpful my first semester her.	0
[And where were they from?]	0
[And what year was that?]	0
So, one of the things that Mr. Ingram taught us to learn, even though this is not in your field right now, but you still need to know this.	0
I’m curious, you seem to describe it so dispassionately and so cordially, were you treated —even though it was separate—w ere you treated with courtesy when you went to the separate entrances and separate side doors , or was there a level of disrespect in your opinion beyond just the separation?	0
So, I was single for a long time.	0
F. I was something, I done forgot.	0
I’m sorry sir, this is fascinating but I’ve reached my limit for each person.	0
My daughter live here in Gainesville.	1
That’s not the one about the war thing, this is about —it’s basic information about me, and about the historic —that is —that last month paper ?	0
You know, one of the things that we talked about today, earlier, and last night is that if you take a forty year period before Jerkins was closed and look at the graduates in the African American community during that time and compare those graduates to the forty years after, you will find that the forty years before you had doctors, lawyers, engineers, scientists, all graduated from Jerkins.	0
Kind of progressing forward in the interview process, what is some history you know about UF?	0
I didn’t even take R&R, I wanted to wait ‘ til I was over there about nine months before I ’d take R&R.	0
I said “Get your kids of drugs, raise them properly the right way, use the Bible as a teacher, You did your job”.	0
Yeah, he is and I have him outside for a little while.	0
So, we were well-grounded and Saturday night.	0
And at that time I think —well when Dr. Martin Luther King got killed they had a riot up in DC , so we had to go up there because they was burning and looting.	1
So homecoming was in—did your school win a lot because— ?	0
Well, is there anything else that you would like to add?	0
There were opportunities that I think for us to maybe bring in some more money that we kind of let slip under my regime because we just didn’t know how to go get certain resources .	0
But specifically, truth commissions are basically boards set up to investigate past wrongdoings by governmental work or government officials.	0
They was taught at a young age how to work and they were taught the truth.	1
And so do you remember the lessons that your mom told you, any lessons that your mom told when you were a child about how to cope with what was going on with segregation and discrimination and things like that?	0
That’s the way it is now.	0
and I was in the Glee Club	0
It was called “Kelly’s Restaur ant” and the service station was called “ Chipenies” It’s been there since 1935, and it still exists , but not with division.	0
Because the people are paying the price ultimately because they trusted whoever they elected to run the country with a certain level of responsibility and the moment they fall short of that, they are paying the price and in the same way we can draw parallels to slavery, segregation, the civil rights movement, where African American people paid the price for the thinkings and the doings of early rights, Whites. That really set a precedence and that precedence is what we’re feeling today.	0
But it wasn’t for us, it wasn’t for May.	0
My yes is , I didn’t mind fighting for my country , but the bad part about it is I came back with a lot of problems , and the government did not recognize that the war had created problems for me .	0
[And like I was saying, they don't want us to gain too much power.]	0
As for part two, I do believe my community expands further than just, because the way I put my community is the people I can relate to on a certain level.	0
And if I took the note home, I was in trouble.	0
And that’s what those guys over there are doing today.	0
So you talked about why your grandma came here, so why did your parents decide to move to the U.S.?	0
[And these people were a more quiet, sophisticated than that.]	0
[So mom and dad met in Norristown, Pennsylvania.]	0
I feel like although I wouldn’t say it was a struggle but it took a lot of effort at first.	0
[And he was a private chauffeur.]	0
How bad it was getting, after you had already left.	0
[Well I always been for the right thing, but learned years ago I was doing it in the wrong way, was violent.]	0
[Yeah, cause that was in the deep segregation time here in Florida.]	0
And I could do my job, but it was just wanting to get rid of me.	0
My wife was speaking one day at the church, at her church.	0
I was an air traffic controller.	0
Me and my wife separated in May of 66 and Uncle Sam jumped on my back in September 66, because I never been drafted because I had two kids and I was married.	0
It's just difficult to find funding for the dreams that we have for this facility.	0
And how were you getting this information about the war?	0
But I was able, and I will continue as long as I’m able if somebody ask me to speak , and tell what went down, because a lot of time what you see on TV is not what happened over there.	1
This place, I tell you, the citizens that this school turned out, the students, it’s unbelievable.	0
Now, mind you, our father passed away when I was about eight or nine years old.	0
I don’t care what I say, the teacher was always right.	0
So then why give me extra or say , “I’m a better teacher because this one didn’t achieve enough to beat the achievement here because here I tested up here in the beginning.	0
One other thing with biscuits, mama would put ‘em in what was called a warmer for eight hours.	0
But anyway before this squad got back, they got ambushed; they killed all of them.	0
In your opinion how do you compare these two commissions?	0
What- where did most of the kids play in like your neighborhood, is there like a certain location or what sorts of games did you guys play?	0
Now, which county library is that?	0
That’s like one of those chillvault moments, where you’re just like, “That is amazing.”	0
You felt as though they were folks that really cared about the school.	0
It's everybody that had love and had something to share, and to give and that's why I wanted to make sure my mother's name was in there because again everybody you know she touched a lot of lives and it meant a lot.	0
That was by a sergeant.	0
[I began public school in the State of Florida in 1971 that was the first year of integration, why did it take seventeen years-]	0
So what type of mathematics was that?	0
It was a lot different then.	0
[So you were involved also with the NAACP?]	0
And the things they did teach us really was necessary, an asset to me in the military, and in my life.	0
I was on the move!	0
[It was an upscale job that I'd done real well in.]	0
and she was Thompson with a P. She had a daughter and a son.	0
[I knew who they were but I had no connection with them.]	0
[There was eleven of us.]	1
Now I was out in the jungle.	0
But really she is the sweetest old lady that you ever want to see, and that’s one reason why that I’m up here today too, is because of her.	0
You may not realize that but they are.	0
But as you’ve grown older and gained wisdom you now see there is a difference, or there was a difference?	0
Because that's just the way it was.	0
[I was on the basketball team, but I was so short I couldn't stay on there.]	0
[And was she always doing stuff like that?]	0
And my dad really taught me discipline, I guess you can say, just to think before you act.	0
So the medevac helicopter would lower a basket for people that couldn’t sit in the swing —when I got out I was in like a swing —and then lower the rope, let the rope up, put you in the helicopter , then fly you down to a tent where they tag you	0
I was going through the headaches , and the post -traumatic stress stuff that I didn’t need to be pressured.	0
So I got upgraded to an inspector , but I know that I had to have this job, because I had siblings that I had to raise.	0
Dad did take care of it like that.	0
[What why do you think that is that so many people of your generation feel that something was lost when the schools were integrated?]	0
If we argued, my brother, my brothers and I would argue, my older brother ’s responsibility was to get his reader and go in the room and read .	0
One lady’ name was Ms. Victoria McNeal ; Victoria Dawson.	0
It was just, I enjoy people.	0
[And, what is your date and year and place of birth please?]	0
She had a daughter when I married her, which her daughter is forty.	0
It was a meat store.	0
There was a biscuit in one.	0
Well, she was born October 13, 1942.	0
[So family, but then also community is very important.]	0
That’s what it was.	0
Do you know about any specifics about, I believe you said racial issues, are there any specific ways in which you know about them bringing forth awareness?	0
And I have visited over there.	0
But, after that is when I started going to Santa Fe, in 1972.	0
During integration some of them put the Black school down and went to the White school and they were severely criticized and they didn’t want them anymore and that is one thing about money.	0
My dad was a senior in high school, my mom was a junior in high school.	0
I think I was making something like twenty-five cent an hour?	0
Also my grandfather back in the  20s, we had a—that was before my time —a car dealership, which was selling model marlay malty , whatever.	0
because they was burning and looting , but when we got up there, they had kind of already done their damage.	1
Things weren’t always good and like seeing a bad situation and looking it in the face and saying I’m not gonna let you ruin my day or I’m not going to let you stop my progress forward or my attempt to make progress forwards.	0
What was her name?	0
What was the atmosphere like going to school there in the early 1970s?	0
He was the policeman, this man was the policeman, I can’t even figure his name it’s been so long.	0
Yes it is, yes it is.	0
but he didn’t want to be a pharmacist and try to take over after his daddy died.	0
I'd like to conclude the interview by giving you the opportunity to make any reflections you care to about the interview or your expectations for the future or any subject whatsoever, and at the end of those remarks that will conclude our interview.	0
And between now and then we are going to challenge the alumni, the citizens of Perry, to help us waterproof the rest of the building.	0
But last Sunday she was down for Mother ’s Day to her grandma ’ house, which my wife went down, and ‘course I went down, too.	0
What kind of jobs were available for Black people here, in Fort White?	0
I was in the reserve for the Air Force.	0
You know, you don't provide a standard of living, you know, there is not the opportunity for growth that they would here, if they stayed here.	0
Pardon me, Methodist Church.	0
But that was kind of indicative of that time where the reproductive system was looked at as sex, and you didn't talk about sex, especially in the school.	0
They, also, ran a head start program out of this facility, and that went on for a number of years.	0
You felt like something was crawling on you?	0
and I feel like you can really flourish, just like I did my early days, when you have a good environment around you.	0
It was very nice.	0
They knew I was in the military.	0
So what made your grandparents, when they did move, make them move here with you all?	0
[He had been married before, he was divorced.]	0
Her father was an AME, African American Methodist.	0
You know, Perry is a small town.	0
So it’s within the County of Columbia County, but it’s not technically Fort White but Fort White is the closest town they’re a part of.	0
That was one thing I was taught, If you want to be somebody, you need to embrace the people that is where you want to go.	1
I believe in 2010, 2012, I can’t remember exactly, but my grandpa was in Haiti at the time and the situation at the time was really bad.	0
[There was no local food production or anything like that?]	0
See now when you were coming up, you're parents realized that if you're going to go to Howard or UF or Santa Fe, this is what you need.	0
You had to— but anyway, we wore those little white cotton skirts, every little Dundee shoes that were real cute, and socks and flared skirts, you know.	0
So, for the next four years, for the Air Force, all I did was play international basketball.	0
Where is the first place that you went to school?	0
[And in God, to be God be the glory, for all of it, for all of the things we've discussed here.]	0
So when he came home, his mother and I sat him down wondering what was his schedule.	0
We hope to have this event again in July 18 or the 20	0
I had been before that, tellin' everything I could think about English.	0
Is that what you originally envisioned when your group decided to have these reunions?	0
The GI bill was there, but when that happened I guess it opened my eyes.	0
Why was that the place that you thought you would— was it Santa Fe Junior College at that time?	0
There are very, very few grants out there for construction so until it got a leadership, we are sort of refocusing our efforts into start providing programs.	0
I said to my mom, “Y’all fixing to come visit me in jail, because I’m not going to Nam!	0
[My mom was a stay at home mom, she didn't work, yeah.]	0
It was kind of beginning of the transition to children in my neighborhood to actually start be born in the hospital.	0
Are you saying that your world view is one that’s more Afro- centric?	0
But prior to getting wounded in November of 67—let me back up a little bit —we had got into some battles, but there was no bodies found of the enemy.	1
Well we had division in Melrose like the gas station; we could not go in the front door.	0
Well, do you remember having to pay for school lunches whenever you were a kid?	0
[Disabled vet, he had some intestinal damage and had a series of surgeries, so he was on 100% disability.]	0
I mean, because you couldn’t do what you supposed to, it wasn’t a declared war —and it wasn’t fighting every day.	0
"Well they didn't necessarily come out of Perry but their roots are in Perry."""""	0
[Yes and I don't know much about of their history.]	0
Then he said that we are looking with expertise, people redeveloping the country, skill trades and what not; school teachers.	0
We was learning the letters on the piano—w e never did learn to play we just learned the notes.	1
Like during whenever, whoever was leading the service and no one would turn shoulder, no one would—because that was the norm.	0
And music was just a way to escape from it.	0
Do you have any further memories of the parents of your grandparents or any other information that you could share about the extended family?	0
But back in the day, I wasn’t too interested in the media that way.	0
No, this Mr. Branton that I know is a retired preacher.	0
[If any were ill in fact she had a chance to see at Morning Prayer how made it through the night and that was touching base.]	0
Some people thought he died in combat but he didn’t and Mr. McCall was never the same again.	0
"[When people ask What makes a leader and how are they formed?""]"""	0
Now, instead of teaching to the test or instead of teaching from the standpoint of academics , I’m teaching this child and this child.	0
And, don't get me wrong, the other fraternities are good organizations.	0
Druggist.	0
You know, if somebody got some goodies, like candy, cookies or something from State, we always shared.	0
And so she cooked for them and my uncle he was a chauffeur for them and things.	0
And her daughter, which is my daughter, she lives in Ocala .	0
So I was discharged in December 68 with this condition.	0
Like jellybeans for somebody, eggs, a piece of candy and all this stuff.	0
and he got his degree in that .	0
You have um… it’s about twenty - three miles to both schools, just like Lake City Middle School or Columbia High School was in the same county as in Santa Fe was outside, it was in Alachua County.	1
and I said I’ll come out quicker and better and easier cooking and washing dishes, then I would with him cooking and not washing dishes.	0
How was it different?	0
She was working for a jewelry store in Gainesville.	0
If you want me to go through this now or you wanna hold it later?	0
I was seventeen when I went to college.	0
[And my main focus just now is standing behind them, and make sure that they do all they can to be the best that they can be.]	0
Is there anything that—you said that it was a time of scarcity, but you made the best of it.	0
And I couldn’t tell momma a lie, because mom was the same way.	0
So what is your semi -retirement with your wife like?	0
One was in a little town called Afton, New York.	0
People have been willing to come together and celebrate the history of this structure.	0
How are you?	0
and I told her who I was.	0
One is that picture over there of my sister and me.	0
My mother was always there on the teacher’s side, no matter what it was.	0
So we had a grocery store in the Methodist Church in Main Street.	0
So, they reopened Jerkins and brought the students back that wanted to come back so they could finish at Jerkins.	0
I wouldn’t be here today if it wasn’t for Jesus keeping me, and I love that song “ Pass me not oh gentle savior ”.	0
Now where these antique shops are on Main Street, there was a building— I looked at some pictures from the 1960s or early 1970s where it had Suwannee written on the top of the building on the right hand side, on this side of the street, where we are.	0
What I’m saying is like if we had tried to go in there, we don’t know what might have happened later on like some of the people that disliked us.	0
There the bathrooms was on the back.	1
That’s what it is, therapy.	0
This is not the one today.	0
[I was a child.]	0
And this is what this school taught me.	0
Well the first wife was in high school during the high school time.	0
That was a pretty picture.	0
Actually I feel sorry for them because that’s gonna be a hell of a punishment he putting on these people.	0
I don’t remember when my dad was born.	0
So, I still come to take care of the house because everybody in this community, you cannot ask nobody out there that went to school at Jerkins, that don't know my mama.	0
And he was the police chief?	0
Elouise read your theme.	0
My cousin —and I don’t know how old the ties is, but there’s a lady doing a genealogy on Keystone.	1
But when the first round came in, it really scared me to death.	0
Because those people were fighting entirely different wars.	0
You had people that were living, cleaning houses, working in tobacco, watermelon hay .	0
So it was shared responsibility.	0
How do you think people within the community, just thinking about Haiti, can learn about this truth commission?	0
I was saying, “ I need to get a picture of this !”	0
I only taught for five years and I got into administration.	0
and it wasn't like looking under the mat to get the key to get in the house.	0
It’s , the way the government look at it; i’s almost better for four, five people to get killed than a whole company if they were trying to move.	1
I'm not sure exactly what it is.	0
But, we have to have the cooperation of the parents .	0
And what was his name sir?	0
It was kind kind of a joke, but it was kind of serious.	0
You were a lifesaver!	0
One was in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.	0
[Well, my mother was about thirty, forty years younger than my father and my daddy had a good work]	0
It looked like it was going straight up and coming back down on us, because the tube was kinda like that , but I mean you can try reversing it when it comes down, and you can drop further.	0
How did Jerkins prepare you for what you ended up doing in life?	0
Tell me how that affects or affected your mindset, your decision making process.	0
[So that may be the reason mark is going to be at the ceremony, because the Taylor County School Board sued HEW and they won their suit.]	0
So I was chosen to be one of the top two.	0
We had to stack them on top of each other like they was hogs.	1
My mother’s name was Lona, L-	0
They didn’t know who I was.	0
And that was probably the more serious one that you had.	0
"[ Why were all the schools burning here in Taylor County?]"""	0
But then, when he went in Service, he went in as an enlisted man instead of an officer.	0
Well let me bring this back to Jerkins for a second.	0
[What was supposed to be there?]	0
Different times and— well, anyway, I was seven years old before I got to school	0
So, like I said, I didn't really know about discrimination until I became an adult.	0
So when I got back and went to doing the same thing —physical PT and stuff—I was reading about how bad it was getting over there.	0
It guess it was a hospital.	1
Yes, it was.	0
[This is an exciting afternoon and weekend here at Jerkins where there will be the dedication of the historic marker as well as the celebration of the many classes that have come back.]	0
What specific area of Alabama did you all move to?	0
Okay what was his name?	0
[Did you have any connection at all with his previous family?]	0
[I'd like to thank you on behalf of our oral history program and on behalf of speaking to me this event and , in closing the interview, give the opportunity to have any comments you like, whether it's about the interview or anything else and when you finish that'll conclude the interview.]	0
Eating and people are going outside and doing different things.	0
But you share a life together.	0
she couldn’t take care of them anymore.	0
It was mixed.	0
It was a physical reconditioning testament in Japan called Tachikawa ; the name of the place, the town.	0
So anyway they sent me, I was a young man, the doctor sent me—I mean the lawyer sent me to a doctor.	0
Yeah you see that a lot, particularly in this area.	0
My rank was E—well, when I got out, I was E -4, with Spec/4.	0
And you finished Jerkins before the integration?	0
"And only when you have occasions like this do you look back and go, Wow,  you know, I really thought he was going to do that"""	0
I am from the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program.	0
The health department– we are about a half a block away from a housing project, the projects  if you will.	0
But cooperated with the parents.	0
How old were you when you moved to the U.S.?	0
What were your thoughts about Johnson?	0
[Of course there were several police cars that circled around as we were carrying up picket signs, I can still see them.]	0
So it went from kindergarten through eighth grade, and once you got in eighth grade, once you graduate form eighth grade, you either had to go to Lake City Middle School, which is Lake City Junior High which was actually seventh, eighth and ninth. So when we finished eighth grade in Fort White, we went to ninth grade junior high school in Lake City, or some students went across the county line to Santa Fe High School, which is about the same distance between Fort White and Columbia.	0
We had the overall picture of things and they also taught us about our ancestors, about our history.	0
I would compare them because they’re both addressing the issue of what is wrong and is trying to really investigate and expose and bring forth some form of awareness so that progress can be made in that advancements can be made.	1
His name was Mr. William Burwell.	0
I put the two of y’all together because you’re both in the same area and you enjoy the history , and the family reunions , and the genealogy, and all that stuff .	0
I came out in 72, came back, went to school at FAMU, came back to be a lawyer, but then being in the military, being with electronics, I changed my career field from political science to computer science.	0
I have a daughter finishing up School of Pharmacy in the University of Florida, I have a daughter in Carolina that's getting her Doctorate, a son that works as an engineer for CNX  Railroad.	0
And he wanted Ed to be a pharmacist also	0
[We heard mom praying to God to crown our heads with wisdom, anoint us with all of knowledge, to protect us from dangers seen and unseen, to throw his ever loving arms of protection around us, and to guide us.]	0
[When and where were you born?]	0
So I guess having my grandpa here, I mean having my grandma here to help take care of the kids whenever she was around was the best decision they could’ve made at the time.	0
Did you know who the people who ran the post office were?	0
We also have many classrooms that, if renovated and air-conditioned, can be used, not only for health care services, but to bring the kind of social services that people need into one place, thus, they won't have to travel all over the county.	0
So this is the gist of what I’m talking about.	0
I had only three months that I had to do, and I just felt like I wasn’t going to make it.	0
[Do you think that Jerkins High, going to school here prepared you to be the person you are today and if so, in what way did Jerkins prepare you?]	0
It’s August 5th, 2019 and I’m sitting here Demetric Jackson in Fort White, Florida at his home at 11:02.	0
There was not a lot of love going on at that point between certain groups of people.	0
[What can be done for the kids that are here in the Perry school system now?]	0
[Well, you think that the closing down of Jerkins High School was political?]	0
My mother ironed our shirts, but everything else to be ironed I'll do it, to do the ironing, cleaning, I would do this, to do the cleaning.	0
but I know where it is.	0
Now, Mr. Ingram would sit down at his barbershop, and we would hate to see him sitting there, because he would call us all down, come here.	0
That’s the only church theirs is if you want to go to heaven, according to them.	0
And the piano’s in here and he would be sitting on the front porch and if I made a mistake, he would come and let me know “You made a mistake, you didn’t count that right .”	0
Yeah, as I mentioned before our family were really close.	1
Growing up, my grandparent parents, were own subsidies, and so they would get commodity.	0
"I said, ""Because he learned how to write his name in kindergarten."""""	0
Which is a lot.	0
[I don't know it's a history of school burnings of a certain group of people you know]	0
Did you get Don registered?	0
[Mother was Isabelle Rosella McCullum.]	0
Fifty PTSD, forty percent  , twenty percent diabetes, twenty percent shoulder , and twenty percent paralysis of median nerve.	0
I love to listen to people.	0
[I had to chance to meet very briefly with the single African American member of the school board here in Taylor County and we didn't have the chance to talk about any details, but I had heard, I wanted to have a chance to talk to him, but I didn't, about the low number of African American teachers that there are in the school district.]	0
What was the name of the restaurant?	0
Related math teacher was named Mr. Mason.	0
[No it was the suit, the ruling came down in 73 before HEW, I mean before the United States Supreme Court.]	0
What was his name?	0
It was up high.	0
You, the brownie was the—	0
The church back in Haiti was, I know the name First Baptist Church of —I don’t remember the ending just because it’s been a while.	0
It went almost from the beginning to tell you what all these words were: nouns, pronouns.	0
The mayor at the time name was Truet George, Truet was also my rec lead baseball coach.	0
They didn’t care.	0
So, this will be the last time I speak.	0
And I thought I was big man after that.	0
[But what happened, was my dad got sick and I had to come home to take care of the three younger kids so that mom could go to work.]	0
I know there are still activities to take place tonight and tomorrow, a worship service.	0
Somebody might be going to PT, somebody might be going to math, somebody might be going to English.	0
[I was an all-conference player in football and we was, also, undefeated.]	1
I think it was me and my brother’s car.	0
[and we'd come to the realization that Jerkins was closing.]	0
So, tell me a little about what your mom and your dad does for a living here in the U.S. and then back home in Haiti?	1
[How long did you end up staying at home as a caretaker for the younger brothers and sisters?]	0
Yes, actually this was on my grandpa’s part because during the Haiti earthquake, the earthquake had a really devastating effect.	0
So, were you, in your mind—you said you didn’t really know about what was going on over there; do you think that you were— were you prepared for what was going to happen?	0
Well, I have some question then because I've always wondered I was talking to somebody the other day and they couldn't remember what year school lunches were actually started.	0
[What brought you from Havana, Florida where you were born to Jerkins High School here in Perry?]	0
They really got together because there were some conditions in the community that the county and/or city government would not addressing in the African American community; namely, we didn't have a sewer system in our neighborhoods, we didn't have paved roads in our neighborhoods, so this Taylor County Improvement Club got together with an attorney out of Dade County and sued Taylor County and the city of Perry.	0
That’s the only way you can be successful, is to take that first step.”	0
Because certain factors were more critical to me at that point.	0
It wasn't like a squad, it was the whole company.	0
" Elouise would get her notebook—you gonna see there aint nothing there?"""	0
She said, “Well this is my last time coming .”	0
Like, if we was back to a support base or something like that —or back where everybody’s at .	1
My earliest memories was before we moved from Jacksonville, which I was born in 1943, so this was —like, remembering when I was five years old, when we lived in Jacksonville , before we moved to Melrose in 1949.	1
I have one brother and one sister.	0
No, I was born at home.	0
They were just the big people in the school.	0
That’s why I don’t care for canned peaches today.	0
[And there's lot of history that's been made behind all these walls over here.]	0
So you went out, got knocked out , and that was the end of it.	0
[Xavier Brooks, Navia Bishop, Jonathan McKnight, Shalvis McKnight, and Jacquon Williams.]	0
For me it was, I feel like for the most part it was exactly what you hear.	0
So, this is what you’re dealing with and it goes on to say that Israel or Jacob face will not become pale, so when you see these so- called pale- faced Christ or these pale- faced people that call themselves Jews —they’re wrong!	0
And I’m pretty sure I was just so glad to be back, it probably didn’t even bother me that I didn’t get a welcome.	0
[Full name is Kenneth R Dennis,]	0
Here in Perry, I mean, there were—everything in Perry wasn’t all good.	0
And if it were, then actions were taken and everything, because we really had to come together and realize that we was all brothers and we was fighting for the same cause and we could not go into combat hating each other or not protecting each other’s back.	1
And our interviewee today is Dr. John C. Rawls.	0
With the University of Florida, from my perspective, and during high school, the education was definitely a real plus, the abundance of resources, there’s just a lot of opportunities.	0
[So I helped to care for the three younger ones.]	0
[Well, because Coach Turner was a real coach.]	0
Well I have to ask you, are your eyes naturally blue?	0
I guess air mattress probably make noise if you twisting on it, or moving on it , or whatever.	1
And the service station is turned into a chicken place; fast food.	0
So that was that.	0
I didn’t feel this, that or the metallics.	0
The wood mill that makes lumber right next door to us had asked to buy this property from the Taylor County School Board and they did sell them, I don't know, maybe two, three acres just to our east and to our south.	0
You have to do that to become a Q Say, friendship is essential to the soul.	0
This happens .	0
My name is Arthur Thomas	0
I don’t know what they did and I don’t wanna know because this one came to me, he was about six feet tall — and the doors were open because we didn’t have air conditioning at that time.	0
Do you believe that contributes to the importance of family in history?	0
How long were you in the Service?	0
So, I had no feelings or nothing , or worrying about anything , because I didn’t know what it was like.	0
And by the way the quarters that she was talking about, sits a little bit to our right.	1
[That didn't seem to be the case when Jerkins was a school]	0
Well my teacher, she never would tell us to close our books, but we knew our books were hand-me-down books.	0
It was so pretty	0
So progressing with your topic of support, how was education implemented in your household, how was the support from your family, your parents, grandparents, how did that possibly aid in your educational development?	0
no this has been lovely.	0
It was a good sign of peace.	0
You could not look down on the ground when you was talking to Ms. Meyer.	1
[But for now, on behalf of the Oral History Program of the University of Florida, like to thank you so much for taking this time.]	0
So it’s really communicating and communication is becoming a problem all over.	0
so when the railroad was all taken away from us going to Lakeland — that’s where I went to college, Florida Southern— I came home on the bus.	0
My two teachers there was, the first one was Mr. Major .	1
and she was really nice.	0
And that’s one reason why the Alumni Association at Lincoln is working now to try to get some of that restored	0
Well, the brownie was the upper level.	0
and I wouldn’t camp out now but back when I was in Vietnam a lot of times you smell a little bit uncomfortable because there’s nothing you can do about it.	0
I had a teacher by the name Lanore Stedman, taught almost forty to forty -eight years, she was our civics teacher in middle school and she was really into, you know, city government, local government, and really kinda pushed that.	0
[But you were raised in the north, so I was asking what was it like?]	0
Well, you mentioned doctors and medical care and things.	0
When we first talked about this activity on the telephone, before we had a chance to meet, I could tell that you had a lot of excitement.	0
Early 70s the movement was still going on.	0
I mean they was smelly, rotten and stuff	1
We are currently in Gainesville, Florida I am interviewing today Mr. Witchell Lafortune a student at the University of Florida.	0
And I was like “Wow .”	0
If you would tell us a little bit about the Taylor County Leadership Council and how this marker celebration came about.	0
I live in Tallahassee, but I drive down here every month to pick up the light bill and water bill and take care of the house.	0
So among the places to go, Alabama was on the list and it ended up being the one they chose.	0
Was that the right way, or is this the right way?	0
Is that because there were home remedies that you could use?	0
[Okay well how did that make you feel when you heard that Jerkins was being closed?]	0
She grew up around here from a aristocratic family and we just wasn’t gonna like her.	1
He raised collard greens, mustard greens.	0
I could tell that I was not violent or anything, but I was not the person that I was before I went, because I was dealing with things.	0
Because in middle school the last thing that’s on your mind is where you’re going to be five years from now or seven years from now.	0
So it’s not just the three children that she birthed, but my parents also raised seven other children within the household.	0
That is where our barber shop is now.	0
It felt like something was crawling in my head .	0
Or if it wasn't Brown's it'd be somewhere over there.	0
Once my class graduated in 68, both the football teams consisted of my brother’s class that was involved in 69.	0
In your opinion do you feel like it restored peace or just established a sense of restoration within the community of people?	0
I had already been to Jacksonville, I had been sworn in the Air Force, I was in the delayed enlistment program for the Air Force.	0
I know the brownie was —my grandma had one.	0
I did what I could to help him but that wasn't much because he didn't have very much upstairs in which to help himself learn.	0
But he was going to send me back to Vietnam, but he extended so I’d go stateside.	0
And it really captures his attention and so he wrote it	0
' And 'Mesopotamia is where?	0
My mom wasn’t a big eater of what we consider wild life, but most of my family was.	0
As a matter of fact, I was talking to a doctor a long time ago, and it was about Vietnam , and she say , “Now, it’s going to open up a can of worms. ”	1
Did they — he just said the man made advances to his wife so he shot him dead in the middle of the street in the daytime?	0
We are looking at some juvenile justice programs now that we are going to apply for and then pay rent to Taylor County Leadership.	0
Your grandparent’s parents on each side?	0
[Well I have one son and four daughters, and my son is named William Stoneworth, and my oldest daughter Davida Stoneworth, my next, no Davida Stoneworth Jenkins.]	0
That was Mr. Grady’s daughter in law, Helen.	0
The doctor’s office and the doctor —the Black lady was in pain and the doctor was not coming.	0
[Well, I'm from a group of twelve boys and I have eleven other siblings – males – and we always thought that we were always proud to serve our country.]	0
And the discipline and everything that we had in school was entirely—discipline was different from what it is today.	0
We had a machine gun behind the tree so we set this mortar up in this bunk crater , and what it is you drop it down a tube.	0
And one thing that I appreciate, things that she did and the things that my teachers had taught and always expected from us was discipline.	0
Well, she was my mentor in high school and, although I didn't pursue my music degree, I'm still involved in music to this day.	0
And what was your job that you were given?	0
[My next brother is named Thomas Demps.]	0
[But, most of the time we was in a second- class society.]	1
so I was here about nine years ago to a Demps reunion; family reunion and I was talking to some of the schoolmates.	0
It was tied into your values.	0
High among the list was financial reasons and the family at the same time was just in the need for a fresh start.	0
When I really started my schooling was when I moved here to Miami and that’s when the real of the situation hit me.	0
And some of these people are doctors, lawyers, very successful people in their own right; and they grew up out of Perry.	0
The punishment in Ancient Egypt was a base caning and they still exist.	0
Do you know anything about the professor in regard to his involvement outside of the classroom?	0
[I was blessed.]	0
They had everything and when they come around there smiling, grinning, Mr. and Mrs. So-and-so this and they said Uncle Butler, Uncle Harvey and many refused to recognize them as their equal as a man and they were more fluent with their houses and cars.	0
So all they wanted us to do was do your chores around the house, do the schoolwork, and don’t get in any trouble.	0
And a guy might have ran to get his buddy in a hail of fire, might wonder when you settle down, “You know I could have got killed” but you don’t be thinking about that at the time.	0
Okay, now this is you.	0
And by the end of the quarter , I was typing thirty-one words a minute and he was barely making his twenty -five.	0
[There were neighborhoods that were all White and neighborhoods that were all colored.]	0
Do you have brother or sisters?	0
And the dead was there for about a week.	1
They all deceased , but my dad was Cornelius Clayton Sr. and my mother was Ruby Lee Clayton which is deceased.	0
Because it was a time of oppression and corruption to the point where oppression of all people.	0
We also had C -40 heated up with this stuff you could blast up a tree; we didn’t blast trees, but you could use it to heat up the little can.	0
Well, by the time I got to sixth grade, we had to Brookton-Scanlon, which owned a saw mill in Foley, sold out to what is now, which was a Proctor & Gamble mill.	0
It was.	0
Since you grew up with really nice food, you are like, 'Well, we could go to a restaurant'.	0
What was that like?	0
So, his mother, our mother and him, together, got five hundred dollars from all those hair dressing, and he worked at Alachua General Hospital and so he came up to Papa with the five hundred dollars and Papa said 'So you meant business?'	0
So talking to the kids at school, coming here doing this interview, these are positives for you.	0
That’s why German soldiers made better soldiers than the American ‘cause they went up through the enlistment ranks, then, they became officers.	0
What was your experience like being a student athlete?	0
And I had a cousin stationed in the Air Force, him and his family was there.	1
It was a good thing.	0
Man what is the truth?	0
It was really, really important and especially considering that I was IA, that also provided another level of people that I could reach out to and opportunity that I could push through.	0
[I became the captain of the football team, and it was the beginning of a good thing because, when I went into the Army, I received a leadership position in the army.]	0
But over at the school in Johnson, the principal was named Mr. Leroy Mullins.	0
Good thing it was there.	0
[This was back in 1914, 1913.]	0
and it’s used in a position where it really wasn’t until high school where I really saw where education could take me and college and so on.	0
I’m not your sister.	0
But there was always that extra step that they were willing to take, to make sure that every teacher that I was under, they always took that extra step and went that extra mile to try to make sure that were successful and achieve their goal, which was to educate us and prepare us.	0
so, where having education was a privilege in Haiti.	0
I need for you all to know that my mother, Minnie Thomas, was the first cook that was hired at Jerkins.	0
As you look to the next chapter in the story of Taylor County and Jerkins High School, what do you envision to be the next steps that you take, the next challenges that the organizations face?	0
I wasn’t going to ‘Nam, man!	0
Okay , and was that common?	0
She was just out of college.	0
[and she was a business woman here in Perry.]	0
So she said, 'Okay Mr.Rawls, he'll be there today and you let me know any day that he is late.'	0
A basis from which to stand, that they can then stand on our shoulders and we can hold them to higher heights to let them accomplish those things that is beyond where we are today.	1
Yes it was great.	0
It’s not long for this kingdom ruling today, not just America, the Europeans in one days and you got four seasons.	0
And they had to care, because the teachers under those circumstances had to see what you inspired into the students when they went on.	0
He laying out there with his head on the ground, and the stomach up like this .	0
No, he was blown to pieces then.	0
But my whole life, for six and a half months, was out in the jungles.	0
[Now what can I say, he was White.]	0
Okay but if you got mortars, that were your job, you knew how to operate?	0
Okay , it was modern, and some of the teachers I had there in— I’ll say middle school —was later named Ms. Victoria McNeal , and the teacher that taught me when I got promoted from the eighth grade to the ninth grade, his name was Robert Allen.	0
But I do visit her church sometime, and there’s another church in Johnson that ’s only fifteen minutes away that I visit sometime.	0
I saw different individuals taking education for granted and that really puzzled me in my early growing up just because it was what was rooted in my mentality at the time.	0
And two, how many parents can help?	0
[I was there for, let's say, about ten years.]	0
I don’t go out and discuss this in open with anyone.	0
You've given two excellent examples of these men, but in your opinion, for the students at Jerkins and for yourself, what is leadership?	0
When I fired down at the enemy, I would take my M -16 and I would hold it up like this .	0
A lot of the things that I learned in here in this school here and from my teachers and my peers here, and also my fellow classmates.	0
[We are Americans that happen to be of African descent.]	0
and I mean she played by notes and what was on that playing page.	0
And because she was born on Pearl Harbor Day, I can remember that.	0
What are your expectations of this reunion and historic marker dedication?	0
And if you go there, you don’t have a way of getting past it—. Here, a regular bake Jake was my math instructor.	0
"Is this problem right?"""	0
I have to get to sign a little release form to say that it’s okay that we put your oral history in the archives at the University of Florida.	0
But they built us a block school, which I’m talking about now , but before that block school , like when I was in the first grade, we was in a old wooden building, and that was back in the 50s.	1
You remember them like they’re your parents.	0
That would have been, end of November 1963 until 1968, he was president.	0
[And like I say, when I left from over here, I was in the seventh grade, just beginning to get into the high school.]	0
[All right, this is Marna Weston for the Sam Proctor Oral History Program.]	0
So, for you does the songs, do they relate to you or have like any meaning, any specific meaning to you, this song?	1
Yeah when I used to teach I’d ask the children I said, “Now is that clear?”	0
I’ve heard other stories about musical genius in this area.	0
Because what you have to say is important and I’m not always right, you see?	0
Do you know anything about truth commissions in Florida, specifically in the Gainesville area?	0
Okay so there are two grocery stores right on Main Street?	0
And I got one of those camera which was light, I started, it was a 127.	0
We flew over there by commercial plane in May of 67 and that was the beginning of the monsoon season , which is a rainy season.	0
[Before we get to Hawaii, that's where we're going next, I just want to ask you, what were your impressions of the country during that period of time?]	0
What was it like living in a segregated environment by law that you had to be separate?	0
In the ninth grade we was assigned to a home room teacher which she—her name was Ms. Rachel D. Williams , and I was the teacher’s pet.	1
"[Well she told me she said There were the ones doing the burning and the one doing the running and I'll leave you to figure out which was which.]"""	0
But now, all cultures are living everywhere, and thank God for the change.	0
Like if this newspaper was the bomb crater, it dropped two rounds, direct hit.	0
It is!	0
He was a cook at the time.	0
or he was a good football player and teachers were jealous of him because he gonna get him a scholarship to go to college.	0
Yeah, she was so tired this morning, she was	0
Oh yeah, that was great though.	0
Was it one of the versions of Jerkins that was burned down and then ?	0
And could you describe your home life for me, like when you were a child?	0
They go there almost like it’s a daycare or something.	0
I had to work out in the field some, but not much, mostly was in the house with mom; cleaning and cooking and doing the house chores.	0
It was good, you have picnics, it was a good place to have picnics.	0
And we were walkin’ to town, and this lady, now listen to this.	0
"[In fact they were saying Don't take money from a county because they are not totally integrated,  if they are attempting to integrate,  if they are trying to comply then let them have their money.""]"""	0
So it was getting frustrated doing that time of the year, but you know I stayed focused.	0
Yeah, to his wife.	0
What are your earliest memories of education?	0
They don’t have this kind of information in books.	0
I'd like to talk to you about another leadership organization that you are involved in that'll probably lead to concluding the interview, but I wanted to give you a chance to talk about it as well.	0
[and I was in the band.]	0
Because school lunches today are like pizza and French fries and stuff like that.	0
My dad name is Earl Jackson, his parents, he was raised by his mother.	0
She was just a friend.	0
Both my mom and dad, this might sound a little typical, but my mom really rooted in me taking opportunities, don’t be scared, don’t hold back, when you know you can take a step forward.	0
My mom said she was at the office one time at my school and one of the parents came up to the school and said, “You’re giving my child too much work .”	0
And as I reflect back, that's what my parents did for us.	0
Once I saw a little taste of progress, a little taste of accomplishment, I personally wanted more and it kind of broke off from oh my parents wanted me to get A’s to I wanted to see myself do good.	0
She was the only student that this particular teacher had ever had who when she needed to catch her breath— for fresh air or whatnot —to come up and get the hall pass.	0
It was just awesome.	0
She wasn't in town this week?	0
So that was generally my growing up experience.	0
and she was one who always thought the teachers were picking on her boy	0
Those were apple bite roll.	0
It was hard for me to deal with that.	0
She was a dancer, I wasn’t much of a dancer, but I dated her for like—I had been married and separated, I mean, divorced.	0
and they were right about that.	0
I think it was Emporium, that we would go in, and that’s where I bought my first doll.	0
But it was Mr. G. W. McCall.	0
There was only, like, one or two lawyers and he got a lot of business then.	0
And he went on to say that some of them communists, some of them dictatorship, some of them democracy, we don’t need nobody to change nothing.	0
Because anywhere what I get on let go, anyone going to be able to be able to parent anyway.	0
[And I was working at the time, in fact I had a very good job, I was a state employee, working at the state mental hospital.]	0
[I retired from the school system here, if I have to select one causative agent, I would say that there was not the same hunger for growth and knowledge and excellence with integration that we had during segregation.]	0
This is gonna be my last time coming out here.”	0
he said “That was your lunch break .”	0
So it was inspiration and I not only inspiration but, when you inspire somebody, you got to captivate them, don't alienate them.	0
So then you do this just like that.	0
I was born in Jacksonville, October the 19th, 1943.	0
By experience I was working with the guy side by side, but then when I became the mayor, he didn’t think I should be qualified and he tried to give me a hard time, but he eventually realized I know what I was doing, and I had the best interest of the town.	0
[Now the sisters, remember I said two sets of kids right, they were all younger than I was yeah.]	0
So it was one of those things that if you turn the light on, turn it off.	0
but he’d go to the Methodist with us.	0
Not saying that’s why they were good, but they were very good.	0
He didn’t want — if he were alive right now we wouldn’t have any of the new things we have like stores and all that.	0
So I really had to take the words they were telling me and take education seriously.	0
Jared and Irene Griffin and were they born in Fort White as well?	0
Well before you go there I want to talk a little more about your English class.	0
Talking about that, in your opinion, what are some positives and negatives associated with the University of Florida?	0
I thank the good Lord for the strength of the parents, and the guidance that we had.	0
I was born August the tenth, 1948 in Fort White, Florida.	0
I, also, have a lot excitement having met some people in the community, and let me just say, on behalf of our program, this has been a fantastic weekend.	0
To talk to some of our elderly graduates the lady that you spoke with today some of the things she was telling you, I had never heard.	0
[When you finished high school, what did you do?]	0
[And what year was that?]	0
Her name is Harriett Jacqueline Clark.	0
So was junior year a bad year , because you just skipped all over that one?	0
Right, or we were kin to the Warrens.	0
Well as a result of integration, there is a lack of the problem of understanding and I'm not thinking solely in terms of teacher understanding a child only, but the child understanding the teacher and the parents understanding the total situation.	0
[Now, we had our salutatorian here, our family had salutatorian at Taylor County High, but I say it's all attributed to what the family insist on, segregation or integration if the family insist on doing the very best you can and becoming the very best that you can, in implementing and deploying those things that you can gather from the village, then success will be at the end of the road.]	1
and I said to my husband, 'Ms. Thomson is the one that did that for me.'	0
Okay, but the teacher was your favorite.	0
[Then, when they come out with the they didn't want us  say that they repeal, what that was?]	0
[William and Lawrence Hughes married Edna and Haddie Robinson and the reason why I am so proud about it, in 2009 when Mayor Bloomberg of New York named 'The Three Most Outstanding Black Men in the Last One Hundred Years', you may recall he named Dr. W E B Du Bois, A Philip Randolph, and James Hughes, that helped to build the World Trade Centers.]	0
[What he did or what his daily life was like?]	0
But as far as what's taken place so far, can you select a moment that's occurred so far over the weekend that has really led you to see why it was important to start this process in the first place?	0
And are there any other brothers and sisters that maybe were born and no longer living?	0
There won’t be anything in his record on it .”	0
And that is Bab, B-A-B?	0
When I got back to the hospital that night, they made a little incision , and took the little tiny fragment out .	0
She was just a date for that night, just a friend.	0
I get a little emotional when I tell this part.	0
And that’s where I started when I was in the first grade , and went there a few years , and then they buse	0
[I cannot go in the back door in this store.]	0
[So you lived in a multi-generational home with your brothers and sisters and your mom and dad.]	0
It was part of the settlement that they would have a baseball diamond and a facility set aside where people could go and have parties and et cetera.	0
We was out back in the day when we used to go to the juke joints and that’s where I met her.	1
Man, I was on the move.	0
I was already having headaches, nightmares , and was discharged that way.	0
No, it wasn’t.	0
East side of Melrose, which is Highway 26 going east to the red light.	0
I said, 'That's gonna take about five minutes, you better know what that is.'	0
You know, I'm sitting there- asking these words and stuff, Mr. Ingram, my major is math.	0
But the legacy that this school has through its graduates lives on in our families.	0
Well, I started taking pictures when I was , like, twelve .	0
He was a great scholar for spelling and for phonics.	0
What was the name of the man that had the dealership?	0
Even though he was my buddy, he was closer than a relative.	0
Oh, that was him.	0
He was down here talking about he gonna be a dentist and going to A&M because his uncle went to A&M and made all this perfect score, but he thought wrong see.	0
And I remember that all the family was poor.	0
The first camera I had was a camera— I can’t think of the name of it, but the film was 127.	0
I pulled the record, and I said, “The daddy’s name is not on the record so we can’t notify the daddy about it .”	0
Okay , and so grow ing up you mentioned that you had siblings to take care of , but were there any like chores or responsibilities like divided up within the household?	0
Well my first year, ninth grade, I rode the bus, we travelled by bus, and traveled home by bus, and then in tenth grade, my parents got me a car, and so I drove to school, tenth, eleventh and twelfth grade year.	0
I was right out there when it started.	0
As a math major, who cares about English.	0
[Okay and what was the subject?]	0
[Did you actually ever see anything like that or was this something people talked to you about?]	0
He was the chief of police.	0
They went along with that false bait, they fell for the hook line and sinker and now, they are reaping the negative part of that.	0
[First of all, we are home.]	0
This company had got hit pretty hard by the enemy and they didn’t have really enough to maintain so they rebuilt the fourth by adding more troops out there.	0
Just coming back to where I was, it’s a better seat.	0
Glenn Miller was really popular then.	0
And when they got together in Virginia, and his father found out about it, he took my grandmother and they ran off.	0
We fought the regular soldiers, so when you run into them, they are ready to fight.	0
And also my coach, Coach Samuel Turner, my football coach, whom I played for quite a few years when I was here at Jerkins.	0
Was it common for people in your area to be born at a hospital or at home?	0
Well, was there anything that I didn’t ask about that you were hoping I would, or anything you want to add to any other stories?	0
Ever since Bonnie was born I’ve had help, until just recently.	0
I got to Vietnam just as quick , but I wasn’t going to take three.	0
so I could get away from the prejudice and this type of life.	0
They did not want people living that close to the mill because of environmental hazards or, they say the spillage from the mill wasn't good to breathe and stuff	0
Could you describe what was happening?	0
There were two born, and I don’t have remembrance of them .	0
Who were the teachers that you had over there?	0
She was born in Madison.	0
As a matter of fact, I was working at Shands when Dr. King got killed.	0
You weren’t paranoid.	0
Education was really big in my family, I remember at one point in dad my dad saying, I think I got a C in something, first C in a while, my dad saying, “You can do better than this, that’s why	0
Teach him to fish, feed him for a lifetime.	0
And you know, it was pitiful.	0
Thank you for sharing your perceptions and I like to close every interview giving the opportunity to the person I spoke with to comment on the interview or anything that they’d like to say and when you finish those comments, that’ll conclude our interview.	0
Where did you work that you found this?	0
So I finished my nine months up at Fort Benning .	0
I don’t even know what they were doin’, I didn’t ask anybody what they did.	0
I said, 'The area of business where all you do is go to the meetings?'	0
I put King there, but King was when I came back from Vietnam.	0
That’s when we got married, with the second one, because she was going to go back to school.	0
[So, that's one major reason why I brought my grandboy, so he can see what we are doing and what happened in this history, making markers and historical site, and it just wonderful to be here this afternoon.]	0
Success is continuous growth, that’s the simplest way I could put it.	0
Psychiatrist medication didn’t help.	0
It was.	0
Where the hospice was, that was a grocery store.	0
So we carried him on out to A&T. He did real well out there and was just out looking at the football team practice	0
Which high school was this?	0
They always chose this one.	0
Okay, and where were they from?	0
So, there was a lot of resistance here about moving?	0
like other families taking care of other people that not necessarily were their children, or just other family members that they were taking care of?	0
The difference in what achieves from this one is from here to here but achievement is greater if here to here.	0
And at school we went from the first through the fifth and we were transported from Putnam Hall to Johnson for just a short time.	0
My mother was born May the fifth 1929.	0
Right where it is.	0
I said , “Now, if stays here the rest of this year and next year , there’s a possibility that this will be pulled from his record.	0
If there’s a family that kinda, for whatever reason the parents weren’t together, they couldn’t take care of them because of financial situations, or whatever the case may be.	0
[I'm not really sure, but I think that there was some disagreement between our parents.]	0
So, it wasn’t like we somewhere and got a group of people saying, “Well, Dr. King got killed. ”	0
I think it makes life more realistic in a way.	0
To be my grandparents who was living down there.	1
It’s just a area that they’ve giving that name of Columbia City.	0
Now that was a big thing in High Springs.	0
What was about Mr. Brooks that you admire?	0
They were just so amazed at my conversation piece about stuff that happened.	0
What I remember doing was, I think it was my junior year—	0
I said , “Get you a pointer or a yard stick and Westward Movement, you let them know the Westward movement was moving from the Atlantic Coast on into land, on into the West , crossing the mountains, then crossing bodies of water .”	0
She went to Valdosta Teacher’s College and she taught in Georgia before she was married and then afterwards because they lived close to my daddy’s mother and she kept my sister Winnette until school was out.	0
The books we have, some of them the pages were torn out or whatever it is.	0
You were dressed like you were going to church.	0
So when things final cooled down one guy—American, our troops—he was going out just to be a listening post at the edge of the wood line, because we had our dead troops there.	0
Let’s see now, what were their names?	0
What was the name of this best music teacher ever?	0
You know, back then, you didn’t have a washing machine.	0
People would go into the streets and March and protest on social issues where that doesn’t happen today.	0
The other one child that I had was by an ex-girlfriend that I didn’t mention in the conversation, I talked about the two by my first marriage.	0
And, then, when they pulled her from there and brought her back to town, and that was when I was at the hall.	0
This was after Tet, right?	0
and she assumed it wasn’t a play gun either.”	0
Right now, funding is everyone's problem and it's certainly our problem.	0
And that was a decision that they made as part of the integration.	0
I think right now to focus on totally rehabbing the facility, establishing the Jerkins museum, the African American museum, here in Taylor County.	0
Reverend Lewis was out of Chattahoochee, Florida.	0
Well I could eat the biscuits with syrup and we were never hungry.	0
He was in the air force.	0
I think I was in my senior year in school?	0
[Who are who were your mother and father?]	0
No, my school tenure was always right here , on this property.	0
It is going to be a struggle because money is tight.	0
[Okay, from birth my full name is Isabella Diane Taylor, maiden name, family name-Taylor.]	0
Another lady —this boy just wouldn’t get to school on time.	0
And a matter of fact, there was the church across the street , and some of the class had to be taught across the street in the classroom.	0
I was born in Madison, Florida.	0
We could slow dance, too, but then he was the best jitterbug dancer I ever danced with.	0
Ms. Grady and Helen were both big workers in the women’s club.	0
So it was Annie Jean Thompson when I married her, and she’s close kin to Coretta Scott King in New York.	0
I was telling him the Westward Movement .	0
[Okay, and how would you describe growing up with your brothers and sisters?]	0
[Um, my favorite teacher was oh boy, in the primary grades uh Ms. Ada Jerkins.]	0
But, she was there and she could provide something for us when we came home.	0
Okay, number one, the reason it’s called Speedville is because there were more Speeds up there than anybody else.	0
It gives the kid a full view of how all those systems work together, and that happened when we were in school.	0
My name is Willie J. Hightower Jr.	0
I could vaguely see his buttocks.	0
And we’d go to her house, and we all brang her a dish , and I ’d take some good ‘ol fried chicken.	0
[The college is no longer there because of the pressure on the college; all funds dried up, so Friendship Junior College is no longer around, but I was very proud to play football there, to further my education there, and there was a sense of pride and a continuation of what Jerkins had given me because on first team there was six of us from Jerkins High, on the first team at Friendship Junior College.]	0
[Christian Tabernacle.]	0
And I think that was the to me that was the spirit of this weekend.	0
But after we was set up, a squad went out.	0
What was their response to you?	0
[Well that must have been kind of scary that you could have been going to the grocery store and buying groceries from the same people that was burning stuff.]	1
[My oldest brother's name is John Demps Jr.]	0
and I was in the College Heights Choir.	0
That was a really good quote and a really good explanation of why you chose that quote, and so taking that and progressing forward into your college career, what made you choose the University of Florida?	0
My mom and dad, this creek was very strict—“Oh, no!	0
[And I've seen that movie Witness that everyone uses to identify the Amish.]	0
yeah one went to FAMU, and he wanted to be a dentist.	0
Winston is Ms. Madeline’s cat.	0
Well this year's, you know, we were celebrating former teachers.	0
It was as though you was at home.	1
Oh Putnam Hall is also in Putnam County?	0
She said, 'I got this from the child. They're going to lunch now.'	0
And let me get you to sign this little paper it's just a little thing to say that it's okay to put it in the archives.	0
They definitely wouldn’t fly us nothing out if there was something going on.	0
Oh now, don’t tell me you were strapped.	0
We took care of our own.	0
I mean I had torn tissues , so what they were doing, they was cutting the rigid tissue , because I got two big scars up here .	1
This is Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at Loughridge Park in Perry, Florida on July 14, 2012.	0
Back in the day , we was going out to the club.	1
[The next one is Jimmy Demps, Charles Demps, Chester Demps, Newt Demps, Harry Demps, Alexander Demps, Joseph Demps, George Demps, Willie Dean Demps, and Herman Kent Demps.]	0
[Childish things you know.]	0
[Do you have brothers and sisters?]	0
It was always a sergeant.	0
I've had the opportunity to speak to some of the people bringing food, people coming in donating services and time over the weekend and at the same time, I was kind of coming back in and forth during your presentation.	0
No, I registered here in Perry at that time.	0
You were married, but then you were single for fourteen years.	0
Again , it was a learning curve.	0
[What was that like?]	0
There were certain classes that you had to take.	0
But anyway, she had three boys and they were all in service.	0
Back home my dad used to be a preacher and my mom used to be a caretaker for elderlies.	0
I didn't know what discrimination was until I moved away actually.	0
"See he was trying to get something for nothing. """	0
[It was a three year program for medical students and they would pit them against four year students to see how well they did and those three year students tend to done so well that they were going through a three year accelerated medical program, but the first Black to receive a degree from that accelerated medical program was my youngest brother Dr. John Hughes, he's a  in Houston, Texas now and is also a clinical professor at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, Texas.]	0
Down there it was just full of people.	0
And, I can imagine the counseling then was really intense.	0
The same song we played, I met the band that wrote it and recorded it, and got an opportunity to play with he and his band in Montgomery.	0
I know it’s weird talking to a White person about Black history stuff.	0
Here I tested down here but I have achieved here and my achievement in this one was there so, was I a better teacher for this one than for that one?”	0
His name was Talmadge Clayton Thomas.	0
The other may pick corn, and so a lot of our vegetables was picked up that way.	1
It was Mr. G. W. McCall’s bank, private bank	0
No I think it was just basic and a whole lot of diagraming which I don’t think I ever learned how to do that.	0
When you see this collection of people coming back today, it is to pay homage to a memory that got them started on the route that they are now pursuing.	0
Yes, I do believe UF is diverse just because you can find different people from different countries, different places, different areas of life, on the same campus.	0
oh, he was a mess.	0
Then later on this arm got infected.	0
It kind of progressed into slavery and then into abolitionist wars, the civil war, and then modern day.	0
We’re going to transition into the next topic, so we’ll talk a little bit about truth commissions, do you know what truth commissions are?	0
I’ve enjoyed talking to your secretary, I’ve enjoyed the two—are they students ?	0
[And, I think the reason we don't have any more Black teachers is because the kids that are finishing school in education have no desire to live in Perry because they are limited resources and limited entertainment.]	0
Now, a good example: I had a teacher come into the office one day, she was on her way to lunch and she said, 'May I close the door?'	0
As you know, in the University of Florida, the African American community is not that prominent.	0
I was getting my compensation from the VA then my GI bill, and that was my income.	0
[Six, end of the grade six then went to Rittenhouse Junior High School for three years and then to Norristown High School where I graduated in 1952.]	0
It’s meant to address racial issues that have arisen in its most general form.	0
Okay are they both still living?	0
So that’s a long time, ‘cause see I’m seventy -one and you think thirty years before I was born, they were singing that song; “Jesus keep me near the cross”.	0
So, she sent me to school with one of the teachers, her name was Hazel Williams.	0
We came here from Georgia but I was just in mother’s arms.	0
that, because it’s a small school, but we were taught the politics of slavery.	0
[So concert prayer isn't there, and see the thing that was so important—I didn't realize until many years after I had graduated from college and had been working a few years—what mom was doing in having us to assemble for prayer every morning, that was a group alert and it was also an inspection.]	0
[And he was, like I said, a Norristown family, and he had several brothers and sisters.]	0
Well, when I got to military service, my fingers were getting stiff because I wasn’t using them.	0
I was going to be a concert pianist.	0
We were in church every Sunday morning, and pretty much all day.	0
[And for you what does attending an Episcopalian church, and being of that faith mean?]	0
Do you remember having to go down and register for the Selective Service ?	0
So this kind of stuff, they’ll come down on me, but it’s okay.	0
I was just so glad to get out.	0
It was funny, “imagine like man why am I here?”	0
Well, you know , you just get a little basic of this and basic of that.	0
This was the point, other than the Black church, the school was it.	0
You were telling me about the differences between going to school in Putnam Hall and Johnson.	0
It was just burned to the ground.	0
And we were forced to adhere to other nation’s rules and regulations and laws.	0
They didn’t want to see something happen to his body and they just buried him.	0
[Do you feel that you became a leader or exercised any leadership skills for some of these experiences?]	0
And I hope it was helpful.	0
[So all of this came from family, and from the start at Jerkins High School?]	0
But when you compare it to the bigger picture it’s just small steps.	0
[That was my colleague]	0
[What is the legacy of Jerkins High School in contributing to that fight?]	0
I can’t really tell from the other pictures because they were black and white, so your hair might’ve been the same color I couldn’t tell.	0
And you weren’t supposed to be there either.	0
[Yes he was, all the time.]	0
We are searching for grants daily, if you will.	0
She had a supervisor.	0
She was like, “Jim, you know you’re not gonna  be out there tendin’ to any garden” or whatever.	0
So we started to just bring the entire school together as a reunion and this time I think we had about 170-plus families to come; and it was well attended.	0
Yeah, my grandma, Pinka Lee Jones, Earletha Watson, my dad Willie J. Hightower Jr., which was one of the earlier classes here in Jerkins.	0
Some of them are to inform, some of them are to engage, but I feel like they really do a good job of setting the goal and accomplishing it.	0
It was a pleasure talking to you.	0
But over time, I became one of the first Blacks—myself and Jimmy Williams—to become registered lifeguards, certified by the state of Florida, that could go to that pool and swim.	0
[Everybody was everybody's mother and father and so that's the love of the people, that's what I liked about it.]	0
So I really had to watch everything what I was doing.	0
“No his dad is in Tampa, his daddy wants custody of him .”	0
And I would tell them , “Water is clear but you can’t see it.	0
Now, leadership is not necessarily the person that stands in the front.	0
He was a voice person.	0
[At eighteen years old, after graduation, I was employed.]	0
My first mouthpiece was his personal mouthpiece, and I carry that mouthpiece with me today, everywhere I go.	0
[And you are not an only child because I met your sister, but how many brothers and sisters do you have?]	0
It wasn’t intended for us to be high like them.	0
[And what are their names please?]	0
[You are going to have a few words on the program in a little while, and I want to know have you thought about what you are going to say to capture the moment and could you share just a little bit of that in a preview in this interview?]	0
Just more exposure is what they really need, because the people really do care and they really would like to know the history and the actions that were made for them and their people.	0
That’s how he portrayed it, but they found out that wasn’t it.	0
Okay, I was with the 4th Division, which was based out of Pleiku .	0
And there was a mechanic shop there.	0
Yes, there’s a local truth commission established in Alachua county.	0
And who was the principal of Central Academy?	0
So I actually was considered the mayor of the town Fort White, for ten years.	0
But yeah, they insisted—my mom was a schoolteacher.	0
There's not enough industry here, there is not enough opportunities where people can stay in the community and have a lifestyle that they would get if they leave and go other places.	0
And this add up to three hundred and sixty - four days in a year, understand?	0
We was called baby killers and that really hurt us, because I was doing the things that I was told to do.	1
[Well, we had a lot of teachers here, and especially one named Ms. Laura Jenkins, was one that used reverse psychology on us and she helped to control us using reverse psychology.]	0
Dr. Burn Cohen was the art teacher.	0
Things like a copy machine did not exist.	0
As a matter of fact, when I was in the hospital, that’s when the PTS started.	0
There were pigs out there runnin’ around.	0
And there’s a little bit of fear that you have put in there too through discipline at home.	0
I was born in Jacksonville, October the 19th, 1943.	0
[and my mother was from a group that was educated and she instilled education.]	0
Were you involved in any clubs or organizations when you were in school?	0
So certain areas would get what they needed while other areas did not.	0
Bonnie’s sister in law got married— they lived here for a while, the boy she married, the Vann’s.	0
It was started back in the late 80s– early 90s and it started off Taylor County Improvement Club.	0
They were all - their last name was Watsons, and they owned their property, and for many years they would work their own property, and I think maybe the early 90s to early 2000s when the government kind of took over and bought a lot of the tobacco farmers -from some of the farmers	0
Momma would wash a lot of things	0
[Was that a significant issue here in Taylor County?]	0
[So I don't too much of my history, you know.]	0
But it really struck an interest with me, and I was still into sports, so I really didn’t have that much time.	0
The people were different, I guess you can say that of course, for me it was a true culture shock because I had lived in Miami for five years previous to the move	0
And we had a lot of friends there so it was a place where you can go where, especially being new to this country, you wouldn’t necessarily feel alone.	0
She was in the, what they called back then the “Brain Club.”	0
[Why is it important for Black kids to have Black teachers and staff to relate to?]	0
He was heavy into that.	0
I misplaced.	0
and she was a widow when her little boy — let’s see, Henry was like ten — when her husband was killed.	0
When they started that mill up, one thing they did was made everybody move.	0
I have one brother who’s living in Atlanta, Georgia , but we were all born here in Jacksonville.	0
[And, where were they born?]	0
What were they, Tornadoes?	0
So for ten years or so I kind of groomed myself, or I was groomed to take over and actually be the mayor.	0
Eye opening, there were times that I would – one of the guys who actually lost one of the council seats, he came to the next meeting when he was upset that the former mayor announced me as the mayor pro tem/assistant mayor.	0
Okay, and what was her name?	0
Truet made me the system mayor, I was the youngest guy in the council, but he’s like, “Well I like your enthusiasm, I like what you stand for so we’re going name	0
[If those jobs have gone and aren't coming back now, which is probably the case with the technology, what is the solution for people to deal with that loss and to still carry on and have successful lives?]	0
My dad worked long hours , and when I say my mom, she was educated, she was a schoolteacher.	0
She really cared about your education.	0
So this is Rykia with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program.	0
No, because we was in a bomb crater , and we were down—I mean, we was up on the hill , and we was in the crater.	1
Well in my household it was not really, you know you just do one thing or you know my mom and dad was kinda of pretty strict	1
It was.	0
This made me the person I am today.	0
I never cared about tennis either.	0
"Well I'm Hazel Armbrister."""""	0
So, I chose typing and when I went in there, the first day the teacher said, “Now the quarter will end at the Christmas vacation.	0
So my dad was very knowledgeable when it came to medical services, stuff like that.	0
Now , we had already been fighting and we come back here into situation like this.	0
You talked about growing up and kind of expecting you to have this community involvement, so coming here were you involved in community?	0
[So, you got one or two good jobs and most times, the people that are raised here, when they get exposed to other areas,  don't want to come back here.]	0
Were they around, and had certain things that you were just insistent that you learn?	0
It was , like, a 57—no, it might not have been that far, because I graduated in 1963, and this was ---okay, 63, it was probably , what was it?	0
[And not because your leadership was different, just because the composition of the class was different.]	0
I know my grandparents on my dad’s side, which was named Dan and Ros a Griffin.	1
You seem to know so many of the children and the grandchildren of people that lived here in the past and maybe we could talk about some of the background folks that owned businesses in the downtown area.	0
If they are not canned, I will eat ‘em.	0
[Okay, well I'm going to say this, in 1986 I attended a banquet for the Florida Association of Equal Opportunity Professionals and the late Alex Haley was our speaker.]	0
The kids that were on free lunch, you know, some of the children would kind of look down on them a little bit, but, then, that was another thing that my mother did not allow.	0
And, not only that, I graduated from this school in 1959, and I returned in 1968 to work in the principal's office.	0
Well what area of Business you wanna major in?	0
Just like I feel bad for Iraq, Afghanistan, and what was that, Desert Storm?	0
But I’m thankful I did, because I listen to what people say right after I play—and I really don’t think I played that well—but people heard me play, they’d like to hear me play.	0
[His name was Jonathan Taylor.]	0
"You are Bill McLeod's son."""""	0
I’m saying you had two weeks, and then your two weeks is done, and then that last day before you had to go to Fort Dix and then get shipped to Vietnam, what did you go on that day ?	1
So I would listen to TV and see what errors were made, if I could catch some errors, and so I'd bring them up and tell 'em what happened, 'Here's what they said now that wasn't right, this is what it should be.'	0
[Okay thank you, were you involved in any clubs or organizations besides being a class officer when you were in school?]	0
For things like shopping and food, was it easy to access food or where did you get your food and other supplies?	0
This policeman, I guess he was the head of it, I don’t know what came over him, but he decided to steal some money, a lot of money.	0
Because that's my passion, but the teachers here was so so different from what we see today.	1
[What is it about Jerkins that makes you feel the way that you do now that you are able to deliver that prayer?]	0
It seemed like it was longer than a month and you felt more comfortable talking to your own people about slavery then when a White audience was around.	0
We was running from the Roman soldiers in 7 A.D when they lay Jerusalem to waste and some was captured and taken to Rome, some they sported in the arenas, so me escaped what you call  Africa, and other parts of the region.	1
I remember him, but I can’t call his name right now.	0
He was the pharmacist.	0
You think they were there though?	0
A good example: “Here’s my child, we’re divorced and still are.”	0
Then, you know, it was very shocking.	0
I really would like to take this further if we have time about the nationality of the so-called Black man.	0
That was common during the years that I was born.	0
Well this was something new to her because canned peaches were— Del Monte canned peaches, “ You’re not going to eat them?”	0
And you know, I really didn’t know what was going on with the war , because I was out there having a good time.	0
[And what is your date of birth?]	0
It was Vogel’s for a long time.	0
The date is August 5, 2019 at 9—at roughly 9:20 p.m.	0
And I can imagine that it probably —maybe it didn’t resonate real hard, because it was the South, but —.	0
Just like on some of these shows, if you talk about slavery in an intelligent manner, the first thing they say is, Well, why do you hate White people?	0
And out there, where I grew up in the country, the Whites played together with the Blacks was together, but we didn’t ever hardly feel anything when I was growing up, until we came into town.	1
Just said , “This is what we have available for you”?	0
[That was the major problem, because the money, the household money, was going for the drugs.]	0
I said, “Well now, if I was teaching high school, I don’t need any Ph.D. in economics.	0
And so I went on until it was just about out , but my nerves was getting .	1
My mother was born in Keystone Heights —a place called Brooklyn—and my dad was born in a place called Branford , Florida.	0
The same young man that taught me to play double saxophone, he had a good friend of his who was graduating from Florida A&M, and they were throwing their hats up.	0
So, it was like the school had two separate rooms .	0
 It was an organ section in it.	0
No it was basically measuring squares, measuring a pitch for a roof.	0
"[And he said that Black people in general have not celebrated themselves and their accomplishments enough they had not taken pictures,  they had not left the kind of emblems or symbols of what we have done.""]"""	0
[Let's see my older brother, two years older than I, he eventually—oh listen, that's my phone; hold on.]	0
But I was reading about how bad it was getting in Vietnam.	0
But he wasn't that good in science, but I didn't tell him, his mother didn't tell him.	0
And then there was some man, I never did know who he was, he was Black.	0
I enjoyed taking care of my baby.	0
All my class, mostly everyone in my class, was very successful and went on to be business men and women and to develop themselves into very prominent individuals.	1
That was one of some of the first things that I notice as a mayor.	0
But you have to remember I was seventeen when I started	0
What I was reading, said , “Don’t wanna go back that way .”	0
And a lot of pictures that I’ve taken which is people, buildings, events and explain to them what I did.	1
And I’m pretty sure some of the enemy probably had ran after they ambushed them, but they were almost back to where we were set up.	0
I was a single mom with two children.	0
He’d just do like this and Bonnie would be on one arm	0
[To do things in such a way that when we stop doing them we are missed.]	0
And the lady, Mrs. Maude Small was very nice, sophisticated lady.	0
She was real strict on education.	0
Her name was Michelle Meyer.	0
Spanish flu?	0
We would bus from Melrose to Palatka, which was probably about a good thirty miles one way.	0
So, going back to your move here, it was your mom, your dad, you and your siblings, any grandparents come with you?	0
So it was still valued in important, but it wasn’t to the point where if you didn’t have it, you were necessarily dubbed less.	0
[And they just didn't have nothing to do, because everybody was different.]	0
[Where were you first educated?]	0
What kind of store was Ms. Summers’s store?	0
And then we were flown by helicopter to a place called Pleiku , back in May of 1967, and we got a in- country orientation there.	0
Knowing that today that, you know, we're not allowed to pray in can't in school and these kind of these, faith was a big part of the schooling here.	0
Church of Christ.	0
She was born in Mobile, Alabama I believe.	0
To youth and action programs, to district and state congress, that we would travel across the state.	0
There’s really like an abundance of things you can do at UF and with the cons I would go for me was the lack of community cause whenever I told someone back in high school that I would be going to UF, that was the first thing they mentioned.	0
And he was probably ten years older than her , but I don’t remember his date.	0
And I was never face to face with the enemy.	0
It was her parents that probably would've your grandparents might not have finished school?	0
She taught English.	0
My dad was an avid fish man so it kind of, routine, that we would eat fish and grits on every Friday.	0
I feel like back home in Deerfield is really close to Haiti just because I went to a Haitian church so.	0
[This is Marna Weston of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program of the University of Florida, on August 7, 2010, and I'm speaking with Miss Diane Bollet.]	0
If your shirt was torn you got shirt, no pants because a lot of times they had a shortage of clothes.	0
What are your earliest memories of childhood?	0
And you got just judgment for example, they accused a guy killing his wife because he was a helicopter pilot during the Vietnam era.	0
It is April 13, 2011.	0
He was upset about it	0
So, you know, because we have this thirteen plus acres and we have, I'm not sure, but I would guess we have some thirty five, forty classrooms that are in various stages of disrepair.	0
That was a lot back then.	0
And my dad used to go and get groceries from this grocery store in Fort White, Ms. Hollingsworth, J. B. Hollingsworth, and he would go and get groceries.	0
They wanted the club to be different from the way it is now, I can tell you that.	0
[I want to let you talk to him, because he could tell you more about Coach Turner and the legacy, because back in the day, that's when he was coming up.]	0
I was over there about six and a half months.	0
But then my parents, as long as I remember, have always worked.	0
[Would you be in favor of them opening Jerkins up again the way it was now?]	0
So you talked about here in Gainesville there aren’t really churches or the community of Haitian people aren’t really as widespread as it was in Miami or back home, does it make you feel sort of like an outcast here in Gainesville or like you’re not well represented?	0
So it's important that our kids and even their kids have some connection to Taylor County and Perry because this is their roots, you know, this is how they got started.	0
[I was born in Havana, Florida.]	0
This is going to be a two -part question, the first is do you believe that UF is diverse?	0
"Of course the fact she was also my piano teacher from the time I was in her classroom, the summer before that, straight through high school and she used to give me a music book called The A-Tune"" which came out once a month and old ones or if this one wasn't what she wanted, she would give it to me."""	0
Then, Madison and Perry.	0
And that would hurt us a lot and that hurt me a lot too because, we was not supported.	1
He was not very tall but he was strong as an ox.	0
We just thought that we were here on this earth and we had to college.'	0
You talked about your grandma, about how economically things would get bad and this was one aspect of your family being affected by the negative side of this corruption, so how did your family positively or negatively were affected by this truth commission that was supposed to restore a lot of things in the community?	0
About your, who’s your mom or dad, or your grandparents.	0
And then Post Springs was good for dancin’, they had a pavilion out there and you could dance there.	0
But mom was not a mean person, but she was strict.	0
[Okay and why was she your favorite?]	0
d us to a place called Johnson, Florida , which was part of —I don’t know why they did this, but they bused us to another place called Johnson, which was probably only about maybe twelve miles .	0
When I went on to probably the sixth grade the block schools , which they had built , they were sixth, seventh and eighth.	0
[And that was the first time you saw it?]	0
It had some rowdy things, too, but it was home, it felt like home.	0
[What were your feelings at that time about what was taking place in February, 1960?]	0
[Norristown, PN]	0
She kept us at home, and, like I say, when school was out.	0
Yeah there was a church.	0
UF BME is a subgroup of BSU where Black young educated males can get together and explore different avenues, go on trips and really collectively grow and support each other.	0
" You know, this old white-head lady sitting here played basketball?"""	0
It was Interlachen High School.	0
Okay, so who were your parents?	0
And, then, the kids that couldn't afford it, they were on free lunch.	0
Right , and then what really was the driving force with her —there was a program called Main Power.	0
So I was just looking for them to—  .	0
What was that place?	0
Her mom was the nurse at the high school when I was in school there.	0
I don’t know where it is	0
[There's laughter and people are meeting each other and reacquainting and there's happy talk and prayerful talk, what does it mean to you to be here today?]	0
We was always together.	1
And that was prior to 72.	0
Shopping in Fort White was not —we did not have but one, two stores that was selling grocery at that time.	1
[I know you are Walter Bishop ]	0
One of the things about living in the South is that we all live so close to each other and everybody knows generally the business of other people but also in a lot of ways the society is a little divided— Black and White.	0
What was it like being a high school student at Jerkins in 1960?	0
Part of first grade, part of sixth grade and eighth grade I was in Madison.	0
Why do you think that Jerkins High has had this type of an effect on the community?	0
[He was elected fourteen years  in the County Commissioner and we have had a good life here.]	0
That was Lincoln High School and they had primer through twelfth grade there.	0
I think the main thing why I included her as my top one, two things: her husband had divorced her, see we didn't have any lunchroom back there then and she was living with her family.	0
This is modern Egypt.	0
‘ Cause since I’ve known him, he was at that house down there and everybody down there passed away and they sold it, and that’s what it’s become now, restaurants.	0
But it was so bad that we had sixty one mortal , which is shoot something about the size of a sixteen ounce Pepsi -Cola bottle.	0
And even if it wasn’t during football season, or band season, I was a music jockey.	0
Because see she wasn’t gonna get too far from home, we knew that	0
Because there are families here that the only meal they would get would be when they come to school that day.	0
[And in those days, that was considered a great job.]	0
So I want to ask, how was church here in the U.S. different from the traditions of church back home in Haiti?	0
[And I ask that because the Taylor County Leadership Association had a primary role in helping get this going.]	0
[but she was very dark skin, small frame, long black straight hair.]	0
That was good.	0
What are the names of your parents?	0
[And pretty well policy is what we do as a board.]	0
The day that you left, the final day, what was that day like?	0
Because I was like five years old and lived across from the theater in a great big house that had a porch that went all the way around.	0
I think more and more now, the teachers are beginning to realize that and then too—some teachers will have just nice classes and some teachers will go on to have the worst classes , academically	0
Just before when I got back I was stationed up at Fort Benning, Georgia which I had nine months to do before I finished my two year term.	0
There was a Chevrolet dealership on Main Street?	0
We was replacements .	1
And one sister, Evangeline Clayton, married twice, no middle name.	0
And you know where that café is, right by me, down there?	0
[Do you have brothers and sisters?]	0
I don’t think they had no tennis.	0
So, I told the teacher he said, “I’m Mr. Jones”, his name was Jones too.	0
I really didn't know what real discrimination was until I went away and went to work.	0
And one was Ms. Rawls, who her husband was a lawyer downtown.	0
There was restaurants that we could not go in the front door.	1
I was afraid to take it home, but if I didn’t take it home, the teacher would stop by the house and ask mom, “Did Drew bring a note home?”	0
If we wanted something we had to go through the side door which was really a storage room , and ask for what we wanted.	0
We used to be a French colonized state, we were actually the first to gain our independence in the Pacific.	0
Then later on, that was pitiful, they brought him home by train.	0
It was a long time before she got into a church.	0
So, not only that, she was so concerned about the children and their diets, she went back to school.	0
Yes I do, being a first generation student is really, really, really, stressful because there’s a lot expected of you	0
It was —	0
It really helped me a lot and also to be a parent, and to try to be a good parent for my kids, to know what to expect and to let them know what to expect from me.	0
[I missed all that, but he came all the way from grade school all the way to graduation, and he can tell you more about the school over here than I can.]	0
[That's that just the way it was.]	0
Well we'll probably go to a restaurant because they probably are finished.	0
[He was never going to work anymore.]	0
English was not my favorite.	0
I stayed out five years taking care of her because I wanted to see her grow up.	0
Who were your parents Mr. Clayton?	0
Listen to what your kids have to say.	0
Could you tell about the first time you were ever really scared?	0
[Okay and Willow Street now, from here where is Willow Street?]	0
I mean that’s what the stories that I’ve heard today have been the teachers are parents because, first of all they know your parents, and if you mess up in class, that’s the first person they’re going to tell.	0
We got to look at this as a whole, as Americans not as race, see?	0
Then they had to pull the wire stitches , and I had to shower three or four times because they trying to take care of that.	0
How are you doing?	0
He loved radio and electricity and the whole thing but he wasn't gonna do that so he went to the military.	0
It’s like in Speedville: I could have ended up dating one of my cousins because I never knew that we were kin to the Donnellys.	0
Lisa Dear?	0
And I think it was probably, maybe six, seven, or eight of the people.	0
That was high rolling.	0
There’s the internet, people are satisfied with petitions and just sit and watch, and music —just like it was before, but a little bit different.	0
Maybe things that people weren’t happy about?	0
You know there’s the praise songs and they are into all the praise songs and the other songs , so it really tells me about that —but they don’t realize that those songs are what brought where we at today.	0
With my men, I was the oldest soldier there in my outfit, with the special operations.	0
They couldn’t believe what they were hearing and I’m pretty sure they’ve seen—I did good today —my emotion was not as good then, but I got it together.	0
Oh yeah, right down there where all that space is by the hospice where people are parking, you know.	0
But this is not the same woman you went to the prom with?	0
It was just that mindset and when you’re in a position where you have so little and you hear those things, you wanna reach out and see if you can get a little taste for yourself.	0
And I got a chance to go to Paris; I got a chance to speak the language that I was taught right here at Jerkins.	0
[Yes I was born here in Perry October 8, 1939.]	0
We have heart surgeons, we have doctors, we have attorneys, we have military, we have police officers, you name it, this school here—this little small town here have developed more business men and women from their level than a whole lot of schools with a higher you know.	0
Okay, and what side was that ?	0
I did not have any problems, we were training OCS students, like going out so they could call in fire and stuff like that .	0
We didn’t stay there long before we were flown out in the jungles.	0
And were you any good at your job with the mortars?	0
And what is this going to be used?	0
I don't know are they- is something going on right now or are we in the break?	0
[We was all right, we was all right.]	1
I remember when I was a little girl because I started school when I was five years old.	0
But those were some of the bad experience of smelling somebody dead, bloated.	0
[I wanted to let you know, how do you think that this situation—having the celebration and dedication—affects the development of leadership in the community?]	0
On the record, the momma ’s name is there, my name is not there, so I can’t go out to the school and ask any questions because I’m not accountable and to give me information about my child is just like giving that information on giving up on top of the Seagle Building and throwing it down on University Avenue.	0
He'd tell us, he was also our sponsor, every year seventh through twelfth.	0
Omega Psi Phi is one of the great fraternities that will allow that to happen.	0
Do you think these commissions are important to know about and understand?	0
And it was a rough outfit, but I knew my men.	0
My mother was December the 7th, 1922.	0
And it had to be way back, probably like in the 20s or 30s, in the historic times.	0
That was it.	0
Too much of the history in the African American community is oral history.	0
Well, leadership to me is the ability to establish a vision and to communicate that vision so well that it becomes a shared vision.	0
The ones that was in the wood line, we had to take our little trenching tool and dig a hole just deep enough	1
Her name is Thelma Clayton.	0
But it wasn’t about the little money that I got at a wedding if I did one.	0
So she was basically selling things.	0
And I said, “momma would be in prison.”	0
[Okay terrific, what is it about Jerkins High School that gives you the impetus to be here tonight at this celebration?]	0
So they had you all take care of those bodies as for health and safety so you were gonna be in the area you didn’t need to expose to that —	0
Ended up getting married having three kids, I had to make a little money to go back to Jacksonville but she had a most of her relatives there , my mother and two of my brothers and my cousin was there	0
And I was slick out of school six years .	0
And I was young and they were looking at maybe ten percent on my back.	0
My father’s mother passed when he was about six years old and his father took sick.	0
Maybe—just kind of guessing —they called them “ clicks” over there, but I can’t go for clicks because I can’t remember how far a click is —but probably a mile, mile and a half.	0
A couple of more pre- , before we talk about what happened when you got over there questions : what was living in North Florida like as a Black man at that time?	0
And one of the things that was said about African American men in Broward County was that we could not write.	0
Whether it was in flag-waving, or marching band, cowput, Jerkins was well-known throughout the state of Florida.	0
My father’s name was Owen Rawls, R -A-W-L-S, and he was born here in Gainesville.	0
On behalf of the Samuel Proctor History Program, this is Marna Weston and we'll see you in July 2014.	0
You know one thing about President Bush, even he made mistakes, it was not my place to say that.	0
And that was the only time that —we used to not hump.	0
[Thank you very much for agreeing to do this interview.]	0
Alright we’re returning to our interview with Mr. Cornelius Clayton on September 9th, 2011 after a brief interlude, and we are ready to move from Vietnam , and talk about what happened when you got home; your career opportunities and your continuing education.	0
There was a lot of recitation of poetry or passages from literature.	0
The young women here was aggressive.	1
And if you was rich, you was rich.	1
And how, you know, that these people were very impactful in our lives.	0
" So I think it was good for all of us to have that kind of bonding and connection."""	0
Basically built on the history here in Taylor County.	0
That was a terrible, terrible thing here.	0
I mean, it was a bad tragedy that happened, because I took him as a nice man.	0
But anyway, it was different.	0
So, me being able to progress, I needed to go in an institution that wasn’t speedy .	0
I’ve enjoyed meeting your two students , and looking forward to giving what information I can for this presentation that it may help somebody to keep stuff documented.	0
I remember when I was in fourth or fifth grade, i started playing baseball and so that was organized, so we would play that at the community center or the rec fields.	0
Everything that’s happened of importance has been in the other church, where members — Daddy was a Baptist	0
She was the principal’s wife.	0
And the younger group I talk to they was like third or fourth graders.	1
As funding from the state was sort of receding, they took the programs away from Jerkins and took it down to the tech center which was already in the county, but they had put an auxiliary part over here.	0
Like, for years I found out that people in Speedville I had no idea until this lady looked it up.	0
They had this lake out in front of Southern College, that’s where I went, and my boyfriend had a car but girls couldn’t have cars, I couldn’t have one anyway.	0
I can’t remember anything other than this room was my fourth grade classroom, that’s all I could remember.	0
You were a very pretty lady then and now, I’ve seen your pictures from then and I’m talking to you now.	0
So, she was hired.	0
But it was a good prom?	0
First place I went to school was in a place called Putnam Hall, Florida.	0
Let’s start with the proposition and perhaps some of this comes from where you’re from, your deep background, who were your mom and dad?	0
I'm not sure because again I was sheltered.	0
Because at the moment I hadn’t spoken a word of English, I came completely with nothing, and not only that I was tossed in a classroom where I was expected to perform.	0
You hadn’ t seen nothing to be scared of yet?	0
You were almost shielded from it.	0
Reverend Lewis, he was the minster at Foley and he, also, was the minister here at Antioch Missionary Baptist Church where I attended from birth 'til I left and went down to south Florida.	0
Her name was Reba Taylor.	0
There was something they called “ pork sausage, ” which was slices.	0
I think it is, in 2014.	0
And I ask that because many people I speak to from your generation tell me that something is missing today that used to exist.	0
She said, 'I thought you ought to know this.'	0
Some of the stuff that I look back at my life, I look back at some of the men and women that were influential on me, my minister Reverend OL Lewis.	0
And what did you and your friends talk about when those things were going on?	0
[but that was funny.]	0
[Considering the closing of  and reassignment or non- hiring of Black teachers, what do you think that that says that there are so few Black teachers in the school district?]	0
So then her next question, “Well, who all gonna know about this?”	0
People have been willing to speak with us and talk about the history of Jerkins High School, in particular, and of course this fantastic celebration of the dedication of a historic marker.	0
I just knew it was all over because they was on target and normally we’d have a person out there, know that you’re on target and see left, right, drop whatever.	1
The Kappas were more the party guys	0
I just did this and my hair was perfect.	0
The stove was a wooden stove, and a wooden stove was on heat for a long during the day, and those biscuits would be warm .	0
So in that instance, situations, I’ve heard of multiple situations that arose where racial prejudices were acted upon and led to bad situations.	0
I remember filling out an application to the VA hospital and me and my cousin went there together and filled out this application, and they accepted her , but she started working in the kitchen.	0
so I got to be real tight with my home room teacher , because we had to report in the morning , and report back to them in the evening before we dismiss.	0
You had to register when you become eighteen.	0
He was also the only Black person who, I guess you call it President, of the Indiana Medical Association.	0
I feel like that was really the natural course of the process.	0
They were up and down the shore, Atlantic Coast.	0
But we took care of each other.	0
So what was the process?	0
So we was bus pass our hometown school to go to other schools.	1
Yeah and seeing I knew exactly what parents who I had full cooperation with, and what parents I had part -cooperation with.	0
Except my grandfather, he was a well driller and he owned his own business, that’s different from the stores.	0
And the reports that they wrote up for the media, was not always true.	1
It might be insightful for you to explain what do you mean by that was the way of life back then.	0
Well, the name of the game over there was to survive, so anything that you did, you didn’t feel like you were doing anything wrong.	0
My mother's older sister went before any of the other children because my grandfather and my grandmother instilled education in them.	0
But he was just, I’ll say, a cool principal .	0
Six months went by, and the Army looking for me, they sent military police to the house to question my mom where I was.	0
Schooling is growing up socializing, cooperating, working together and helping people.	0
Where were the businesses owned by Black people, because if you were at these places that had the separate interests the mindset today we would say , “Well we’ll just go someplace where somebody Black owns ”?	0
So I was just now moving on my own for the first time, first time being alone in a new city, I had no friends, no family in Gainesville.	0
What they talk about quietly and privately about it is different.	0
Okay , and how was your time working there?	0
For a long time I felt a little alienated just because I was unable to connect to people on the level I had been able to previously.	0
No I’m divorced, I was married.	0
But I guess I just didn’t ask enough questions, I just took it for granted that that was what happened.	0
Okay and when you talk about people being different, I know you talked about people being like- minded as you, but was there anything more specific that made them more different than what you’re used to?	0
So I think that's what is missing now in a lot of classrooms.	0
Chief would have a skeleton that he would put, that was in the classroom, and he called him Oscar.	0
So, while we was firing up a bunch of ammunition into the woods where the enemy was supposed to be, and the artillery dropping around us pretty close but not on us, the enemy knows the closer they are to us, the safer they are from that artillery.	1
I’m on it to have you share some of your stories.	0
I think Ms. Jones taught twelfth grade English.	0
We called—right now I can’t think of his name, but we called him “D.C.” I mean, we were real tight.	0
Well, there was a little bit different ; not violent.	0
You know, because I was in —I wasn’ t in the central highland , where it’s flat land, it was more so hills and valleys and all this .	0
But I didn’t know anything about how or when, I just know that it was smokin’ when I got home from Bell.	0
[So what you are doing fits right in it, this is very good.]	0
That was a Church of Christ.	0
And she was moving around.	0
I was a guy that played sports, so sports is kind one of those areas where it really doesn’t see color.	0
We had a fence around our house, it's over in northwest Gainesville, and we were not permitted to go outside of the yard without permission.	0
Because she was like his mother, you know, by him being so young, same age as—he was about a year different , a year less than me.	0
All of the outlying areas– they all came together here.	0
Yeah, it could be anything from the people that you were with or the teachers.	0
They had a rule that – when that Sunday school bell ring , you better have your bible verse, and better be in there and say it, if you don’t say it in Sunday school, you were late.so we kind of had a deal, it went off from my dad , down to all his children.	1
But at the time, I thought some of them were being pretty mean	0
And this was as early as middle school	0
Yes my professor’s name is Vincent Adejumo.	0
It frightened me so, plus I thought it was all over but…	0
I accomplished that	0
I was raised that was and I’ve continued in that and going further and staying after church, helping out, just participating in different activities.	0
Also I was invited to the Interlochen High School in Interlochen.	0
Well, having grown up in Taylor County, we talked about there was a little place outside of Taylor County called Foley, and that's where I was born and spent my first five years in school there.	0
Was he excited that he was going get to graduate from here?	0
But when I did move to Gainesville, there was an immediate lack of Haitians so there isn’t a Haitian church in Gainesville	0
I learned to spreken ze deutsch a little while I was in Germany.	0
And I am here with Dr. Horace McLeod of the Taylor County Leadership Council who are the sponsors of the Jerkins High School Reunion and in association with others.	0
So I came home, it was sitting on the front porch and the principal at Archer—and I'd been trying to get on here in this county for low years—came by the house and asked me did I want a job.	0
I just attended school, and then my redshirt freshman year was just my second year at Florida, you know I played a little bit, and still wasn’t starting.	0
Well before it cooled down it had got so bad that they called —they wouldn’t let the guns hips come in which is the helicopter with rockets and machine gun fire.	0
Well I’m saying when you raised in a community, whatever the environment is , you adapt to it.	0
Yeah which I have one son that’s an orthopedic surgeon, and my daughter is also a doctor, and my other daughter, she’s an attorney.	0
Other words, you gonna take them captives whose captives you were to be servants and hand maids.	0
[Oh boy she was a loveable person]	0
It was.	0
I know Cecil could’ve answered all your questions, he knew everything about everything in this town.	0
I was buzzed that he didn't need to go down there to spend his education, two hours a day to learn how to write his name.	0
Do you think that this activity this weekend is going stimulate people to continue to reinvest in the memory of Jerkins and have a positive effect on the community?	0
“Okay what if I write it on this ?”	0
In this interview I’d like to talk to you about the history of your education.	0
We didn’t have to worry about—I’m not saying we didn’t get upset with each other or had fights or whatever, but it was not to the fact where someone had to go to the hospital or someone went to jail or whatever.	0
you mentioned your parents, so what are their names and your grandparents names, if you don’t mind?	0
Jerkins prepared me really well for the future.	0
That was a big Ford place.	0
So I stayed, contact the lawyer told him what was happening so he said, “Well we don’t have anything to go on.	0
Again, they applied for a 501(c)(3) and was granted that.	1
She would say to the supervisor, give it to them, you're gonna throw it out doors anyways.	0
As a matter of fact, when I got wounded was in that crater .	0
There are trees , so they could be behind.	0
Did going to high school here give you that thirst for gathering this type of knowledge or where did you gain your critical thinking skills and the ability to look at the world in this fashion.	0
Today’s date is the twentieth?	0
So, that was how I dealt with it.	0
One thing does not lead into the next thing and we have a lot of parents especially now when I was teaching, would tell their children, “I just went to sixth grade and I didn’t get all that education.	0
I guess it was unbelievable to them.	0
It always appeared whenever he's going to—see, my father was a cook—to can peaches it would be my week to wash dishes.	0
My granddaddy, his father was Caucasian and his mother was a slave.	0
No, that was the man who ran the town.	0
[Well now you seem as sweet as you can be what, what did you do that was wrong?]	0
And where are they respectively?	0
I didn’t really wanna know about parents, family and marriage.	0
There was always somethin’ to eat.	0
When did you really know, “Hey, this is Vietnam , and you can die” ?	0
[Where were you when you found out that Jerkins High was closing and what was your reaction when you heard that?]	0
Now this is film, because it’s black and white, so it’s got to be.	0
I taught summer school one summer over at Lincoln and this football player was in the class.	0
I miss that shop.	0
That was a famous place down there.	0
But we still had problems and different things, but they was not tolerated.	1
This is the person without putting on airs, without additional —this is them .	0
Yes, currently my mom is working whatever job she can find at the moment and my dad for the most part is working security but pretty much the same thing.	0
To say that she was a full-time teacher, but her teaching became motherly as guidance and she embodied that guidance counselor way.	0
He knew everybody and he loved everybody and he was so good to everyone.	0
I’m gonna try to put this very lightly, but I felt like some people were either not as open- minded or as encouraging, not encouraging, but now as open- armed as they should be.	0
Well I wasn’t in Cambodia.	0
I heard about it , but I was never involved in it, because where I was , we didn’t have any —like, in Melrose , we didn’t have anything going on like that.	0
My mother had one brother, which was about my age.	0
Well she had to make sure to check you that you were there in the morning , and then check you out that evening before you catch the bus.	0
Like you can’t hit the child and you can’t —it’s certain things you know teachers are so cautious about.	0
Because that’s an environment that—well, is tomorrow my day?	0
[And we should portray that in the community that our youth will be able to discover the God that brought us out through our hard times in slavery.]	0
Oh, they was highly upset.	1
Now if we wanted to go down to what we called the Recreation Center, which was two blocks from the house, we had to get permission to go down there.	0
And so was there typically any White people who attended the church that you went to?	1
[And we believe now that it was heart disease.]	0
And who were your parents?	0
And one of the languages that I took over there was French.	0
And he said that the Vietnamese people would give him the Black Power symbol and that he often heard, “This is not your war go home, go home.”	0
And that was on the east side.	0
Like it got the point where I wanted to personally get A’s myself, not necessarily, it wasn’t that I wanted to succeed, I wanted to do well.	0
Who were some of the Black families th at your family had knowledge of?	0
Didn’t know what they was going to be asking me, so I really didn’t know what to brush up on.	1
[If we had not gone to Jerkins I dare say the following our parents gave us as a culture we might have done the same thing, but we were at Jerkins so I'm proud we were at Jerkins.]	0
But I went around the bush now, I don’t know what I was supposed to answer then.	0
I don't live there now, but that's where I was born at.	0
If we wanted to go out in the street and catch ball or what not, we had to get permission, 'Could we go out on the street?'	0
[Okay, well before we attended school every morning my mother had prayer around the table and each of my siblings will bear this out.]	0
Well that’s what he did for his life for the most part, and he has a rental property that he dealt in, a little bit, that kind of thing.	0
Was the post office where it is now?	0
When I got wounded—and I might be stepping ahead in my talk—but when I got wounded in November of p19]67, they flew us up in a helicopter , they flew us up to a place called Dac To, and that was in November 67.	0
[Are you familiar with the Amish?]	0
I’m Anna Brodrecht from the Sam Proctor Oral History Program.	0
I never really knew what it was.	0
The next year Daren got to write another paper, I said, “Yeah what you going to write on?”	0
You could get on my sidewalk and look down there and there was that poor man with a sheet over him on the ground.	0
And, I was the person that was designated to take up the lunchroom money.	0
And man, I haven't made barbecue sauce in twenty years, and the time he was making it, I never thought to ask for the recipe.	0
'Yes you are accepted.'	0
And, you were already ahead for your age because you had gotten so much of this attention?	0
See it used to be communicating between the home, the church and the school , but it is hard to say , and it’s bad to say , but the church can’t do too much now because the parents don’t want the church to do what the church once could do.	0
and I thought mom was six feet tall she hit so hard.” .	0
There were days that she couldn't make it or days that we would bring sandwiches, but her preference was for us to have warm lunches.	0
I don't know because, again, my mother was bringing me lunch so 	0
So you knew that the strategy was —you knew it was coming.	0
He was hiding there, or staying there during part of the mission, I guess.	0
The efficiency of those efforts weren’t all as well as they could be because oftentimes the relief was lopsided.	0
So , they issued our jungle fatigues , and our jungle boots —which, when I first got there, they were out of jungle boots, so I had to wear my old leather boots, which, that was rough out there.	0
The food that we ate was made—mostly was vegetables that he raised on the farm.	0
Well, my brother, I think he was in Boston.	0
They lived half way between Fort White and Columbia city, which is – look small, small residential town, north of Fort White on highway 47.	0
What was a basic patrol like?	0
There wasn't so much danger as it is now.	0
So you were the test.	0
And where were you inducted at?	0
So they would like to put more oral histories in their classrooms.	0
Which, my nine months that I finished, I had a nice position at Fort Benning .	0
These two boys would come and get all the Blacks out of your class and take ‘em down to in front of the football thing, and they were all in a big circle and they had the principal right in the middle.	0
[yeah I can share.]	0
So if you gonna eat lunch, you do that,” because we didn’t have any lunch rooms and I didn’t want to be carrying any greasy pans , cold biscuits with mayonnaise on ‘em or syrup.	0
In our everyday life, we make mistakes.	0
Well I taught English all the way from High Springs to the restaurant	0
And my teacher was Mr. Ford and we had to have a related math class.	0
No, because I didn’t know what was going on.	0
I think this is the fourth or maybe fifth reunion that we've had, and it's a all-school reunion because the school has been closed now for quite some time.	0
But this just didn’t come about only because of Jerkins and Madison and other places I went to just something in me that I would not accept and it’s a statement in the Bible said “Those that sigh and cry for the abominations” which is sin, “on this earth is more or less a beginner of a candidate for the truth”.	0
She did a few times , but it wasn’t all legal what she wrote.	0
[So when Martin Luther King came along, then I came to the realization that non-violent is the best way to attack and solve problems.]	0
But I hear errors all the time, they don’t care about English.	0
[Well my friends and classmates you know and Jerkins was a wonderful school.]	0
I think it was a school up in Georgia, Wood Vine.	0
He was babyish when he got back, though.	0
So our first question is: when and where were you born?	0
And my brother over here, and my sister over here all the way from —give me a better shake than that girl	0
That was a bad time.	0
But mine was a under model.	0
And my hair had always been shoulder length, I had long hair and my hair was just blowin’ all over the place.	0
You were trying to get your job done.	0
Is he from Keystone, or is he from Starke?	0
It got to the point that we were rented out to play for different countries in Germany while we were there.	0
That was not it.	0
And they also dropped canisters of napalm , because the enemy probably would have overran us.	0
That’s what I was trained for.	0
So you got to your senior year and what was it like because I’ve heard there are a lot of ceremonies for the senior year?	0
But this one was not too long ago.	0
You got to leave more space, because what you see is not what you’re getting.	0
And his thing was all , “When they actually do fire you then we’ll do something about it?”	0
When I was in middle school and high school, she would make me take her to the local town hall meetings, and so I would be the only kid sitting up in these town hall meetings with all these old people talking about, you know.	0
The songs that I typically sang was hymns.	1
What did your parents say when you said, “I’d rather join the military than finish school right now”?	0
It made it look like the United States was really doing a job, but were getting a job done on us in Vietnam.	0
Whatever trade you taking whether it was brick mason, or tailoring or wood working.	0
Well, I couldn’t, because I didn’t have that much—I mean, you did a quick thing stateside learning about the map and stuff, but the squad leader, he was like a sergeant, so he had probably been there a while .	0
No, I think it was because it was lunchtime, and we were going eat a little lunch and we were going go out.	0
I was a peewee; boys football .	0
So, I ended up working with the state in administrative work.	0
"[ That was our first riot,  when the principal said,  ""All senior nigger rods coming through the auditorium.""]"""	0
So, before you start telling the story a little more, could you describe what was in a C-ration?	0
And then of course it was the jitterbug.	0
But they opened fire on us, which they was at the foot of the hill.	1
At one time it was a private school operated by the American Missionary Association and it was pulling out and the state was taking over	0
I said, “Don’t ever look down on the ground when you are addressing someone.”	0
This is it .	0
Talking about success, what is your definition of success?	0
Well I said a convoy go through that area, so they didn’t wanna have to go through that smelly.	1
Because that was a big transition to try to get into.	0
It sounds like faith was something that was very present here at Jerkins.	0
So the artillery was coming in pretty close—not on us , they didn’t hit us.	0
Yes just like any professional organization, it’s really a hub for connections and engagements and mentorship just to really engage engineers and expose them to the different resources and opportunities and really the information that they need to make the right decisions and more forward in their career.	0
[In fact, I was the secretary for NAACP in Norristown.]	0
So clearly your parents instilled in you core values of integrity, discipline, strength, purpose, are there any other core values that were implemented in your household, within your life growing up that stands out to you?	0
You know, if you're gonna be talking about Roman numerals, why is the kid studying the War of 1812?	0
[Do you think that's something that's been lost for the students that go to school today now that the schools are everybody is together, there's not just like your community, I guess we just use the word 'integrated' now as opposed to 'segregated'; do you think that something was lost when the schools were integrated?]	0
My roommate and I, when we were freshmen— our colors were red and white— so we had a little red cap, you know like they wear at the university in orange and blue?	0
There were many obstacles, many things going on.	0
But there were tourists who came on this road because we didn’t have the interstate.	0
And one of the things is, the same song that James Watson wrote for the band and performed my last performance as a band member here at Jerkins, I came from Ramstein Germany to Maxwell Air Force Base, Montgomery, Alabama.	0
So, it was a big difference in going to school in Madison and going to school in here.	0
Students who lived on the other side of town passed the First Baptist church downtown where there was Corinthian columns.	1
Because it got to a position where my mom, and I don’t remember correctly, she was either trying to pursue her college education or was just trying to work more.	0
Not that I was a bad kid, I wasn’t a bad kid, but there was some that it made them change their way about some things .	1
But when I went to college, you had to wear socks or stockings, you could not go bare- legged or whatever.	0
I thought I would use it to keep track of the time , but it’s making too much noise.	0
What significance is that	0
Some things that we couldn’t learn in the books, wasn’t in the books that they talked to us about and made us appreciate our surroundings.	0
I don’t think he was really trying to prove something.	0
But while we was up there everything got under control and we came back.	1
When I got to be a senior I was voted to be the vice president of the senior class.	0
This guy traveled from school to school , and I think he gave us a one hour music lesson.	0
[That's marvelous, why is that important to you?]	0
We were very competitive when it came to music festivals, band festivals, as well as big clubs in hereabouts.	0
and I just wanted them to know that English that you speak, just to speak.	0
She said, I had to tell you this one story about my mom.	0
And when and where were you born?	0
Like, for example, I’m going to take a look at this one, and I can’t really tell if this is film or not.	0
I can say college has been good, I’ve grown a lot both educationally and most other areas.	0
Did your mom and dad have brothers or sisters that lived around you?	0
Because this other school in Putnam , it had a wood stove.	0
[No, no they were segregated neighbors.]	0
I was there for a year and during that year I was there, they racked up on tuition and room and board three times in one year and so my father told me when I came home for the summer, 'If you plan to go back to school, you better choose a cheaper school.'	0
Well then, back to your mother’s side : what do you know of your grandparents’ parents ?	0
Well, equally to it's a great pleasure for us to have this type of access and to be invited in.	0
[And I'm not sure of the tribe that she was from]	0
Right there, there was a filling station there.	0
This is Loughridge Park, it was built by the city and it's maintained by the city	0
"Then I said, High school teaching is not for me."""	0
One of the grandparents would generally take over, and raise the children, and our case, my grandmother, she was raising two of my cousins.	0
I mean, I had already registered.	0
That song is a old song, and one time I looked it up, we was having this hymn conference thing, and I went to it in Lake City , and I think when they told me that that song was over a hundred years old.	1
Find and establish your support system whether it’s with mentors, teachers, fellow students.	0
His senior year, six months before he graduated, he taught me how to play the tenor.	0
so you didn’t really call him your uncle, y’all were about the same age.	0
So when I got well enough that I could go for a weekend pass, I went to see my cousin and his wife.	0
The country’s great, the country is great.	0
It really was.	0
And, they will set up a program were  a study period.	0
[Yeah, and she was a stroke victim.]	0
I taught him how to, the teacher taught him how to write his name in second grade .	0
[You were talking about your dad.]	0
[I wouldn't venture to say it was lost because chemistry and physics test still make people pray.]	0
and I got an A or a B I felt accomplished and that was the main thing.	0
Always, it’s wise when a woman or man to always fess up to I don’t know.	0
Just as long as I felt accomplished that was good.	0
Oh, so that is a big deal.	0
Well I was in the Glee Club, you had to try out to be in it, so I did	0
You asked me what did I think, which means you were not sure.	0
Well, the way I see it is going to a Black school you have somewhat of the same culture.	0
Yes, he was, because my other brother, Terry—which was a year behind me, and he came out in 69—with him being athletic, played football at Jerkins, they took Terry to their football team, to lead them all to State.	0
[Do you have any sense of what the story behind the relationship was, that he would live far away and she lived close outside of, maybe just the idea that maybe it was something because of their ethnicity difference?]	0
What’s so interesting is that they talk about generational gaps and things, but when you speak I draw so many correlations between my own family life.	0
but it wasn’t anything to wash our dishes.	0
When we are standing up around people, we want to be honest and truthful and all those kind of things.	0
For instance, Dr. Hill, when she was here, she was like a mother.	0
[Because she had a daughter, she was living with one of her daughters that was sort of her caretaker.]	0
You know what a steel pot is?	0
But we was way out from our main perimeter where everybody is set up.	1
And I saw a lot of my fellow brothers, and some of them very close to me here, lay down his life.	0
I can’t think of his name, but the first day of class we were all sitting—I forgot what class.	0
Like play a little bit of an oral history so that students can hear a voice talking about their experience.	0
And right now we are about 85 percent there raising the funds.	0
So, there was a pretty developed music program at Jerkins.	0
But then things like helping momma wash.	0
And 'course, this is something you can't tell at all in two or three hours, because there was a lot of stuff I shared with them. '	0
And after we was there for a while and got our jungle fatigues , and jungle boots , and all that kind of good stuff , and our weapon—which I had an M -16—t hey flew us out in the field and we joined another company.	1
I didn’t ask you when we first started: what was your designation, and your rank , and your outfit when you were in Vietnam?	0
We always worked near the Cambodian border, which was out in the jungles .	0
And these are the things I’m concerned about.	0
You don't never told us we got to go to college, but we just thought that was our responsibility.	0
Her jewelry was on the ground.	0
But I think that was before I got wounded.	0
So, when you transferred into Jerkins from the hall, I guess was the last place that you were at before Jerkins?	0
Because there was a lot about, you know, talking about loving people and everything.	0
So, it was a good journey	0
And we are just very grateful that you take the time to come over and do this with us.	0
Oh, you were drafted.	0
I was side-tracked—	0
all of them names was Hughes.	1
They were not looked at by the School Board as assets to the community, so they were somewhat ignored by the school district, but yet they taught.	0
[He did the chores in the house for this same Walt—to—do family.]	0
And, she lived in this community until she was ninety-one years old.	0
Yes, I did talk about that because it was in the early days where my parents were continuously saying “You have to do good in school, you have to give it everything you have.”	0
Our homeroom teacher, she could discipline us like principals or whatever	0
and I were—I think I was a grade ahead of her.	0
Well, evidently it was post traumatic stress kicking in.	0
What was your earliest memories of your education and where did you first receive your education?	1
I can’t remember what the reason was , but it was a school that only went from first to fifth, and I think I might have been maybe in the fourth grade when they transported us from Putnam Hall Elementary School to Oak Grove Elementary School.	0
but I guess it has been— that place was on fire.	0
Oh my dear , Lisa Dear.	0
[so I wanted to know in your own words what was it that, what is it that makes a person a leader, what is leadership?]	0
I went out one time , but when the big boys got through—seem like they were going to tear me apart that one day, I did not return.	0
He and Ms. Barry, was just a homemaker, she didn’t work anywhere.	0
So all of my public schooling was at Lincoln High School	0
But I don't know if he knew it was phonics, or not.	0
I'm kind of going back, but, it was like conditions.	0
We also had a principal there from Palatka, and her name was Ellis Norwood.	0
But anyway, I remember one time the Black students had— I still don’t know what happened, ‘cause I was teachin’.	0
[Well I appreciate the opportunity to be able to express my opinion and I just believe that we will take back this heritage of the Jerkins site.]	0
Now, what was the other question?	0
But the interest is not there and a lot of the times—I have had a student, was not a good student at all academically but every day when he would walk in that classroom he would say, 'Good morning Mr. Rawls how you doing?	0
Well you know, growing up in Fort White, we only had an elementary school, and you know, most of my teacher who were White .	0
Yes, my name is Witchell Lafortune.	0
I open it to you to speak for as long as you care to.	0
I was just on the move.	0
We were a big family, our close nit family, but we was also a family of faith, and our entire family, all of us, we all went to church.	1
Well I’m pretty sure there was a lot of lessons learnt , but I’m pretty sure every war is different.	0
But my age group, my generation was the start of a lot of kids being born in the hospital.	0
When we was out in the jungles, we was out there the whole while.	1
The one that comes to mind is “We are what we believe we are.”	0
So, it was around Thanksgiving time.	0
And they knew they were kin, but, you know, they just —somebody was helping somebody and they married them .	0
I went to high school in Palatka, Florida and the name of the school is Central Academy High School , because back in the day it was an all -Black school.	0
[We didn't know who they was.]	1
Who did you all play , for—who were your rivals, your opponents?	0
Oh I heard so and so say that she was a good cook and she feed you' and really, the neighborhood joke was that all the children in the neighborhood would get fat off of the food that we left and did not want.	1
And, so, one of the things that he taught us about leadership is that you had to have sound character, and so much of what I learned from Reverend Lewis and I copied a lot of that, even to the shirt I wear.	0
So did Jerkins have a—you were able to finish your degree through, it wouldn’t be online, but through mail-in or how did that work?	0
Well, they didn’t want the church to know about the children so the school said, “We can only give grades to the parents whose names are on the record.”	0
“This is a place I wasn’t allowed to go before.”	0
I fill it up once a month and so this time it was $63.	0
We didn't grow up 'girls do this and boys do that' all of us do by the week.	0
and I could tell that White people were more fluent.	0
What was the name of that place?	0
Bonnie, my daughter, and I were just talking about it the other day how they, I think it was Christmas, they’d have the children down at the park and they’d give them little bags of candy and fruit, you know?	0
And then there were other days that you thought, “Oh, I’m so happy that I am.”	0
And they were directly on target.	0
You were gonna learn, because if you cut up in school, I got a beating in school.	0
I was hollering and if I could have hit somebody I would hit somebody.	0
Your own husband and wife and children then, that is freedom.	0
But that was another funny thing that I had never experienced before, of riding in a rumble seat.	0
And, it was good food.	0
And there was a service station which you had to go to the side door and get what you wanted.	0
So she said , “Well Mr.Rawls, I’m tired of getting off my job and being late to my job because of this boy and I’m not gonna come out here.	0
We have my family in California is Mexicans, Caucasians, Puerto Ricans.	1
He operated his business.	0
You are quite welcome.	0
[See, we are a family oriented people and the more we have a chance to come together, celebrate each other, and embrace our culture while at the same time being thankful for God delivering us first from Jim Crow and blessing us to make our way into the American society and to do something.]	0
Well when I got out of the doctor’s office I started down then and I didn’t know if I was gonna make it.	0
The daddy was something in the railroad.	0
Certain requirements that you had to take, but I forgot what the requirements were when I was in eleventh grade that’s why I kinda moved on a bit.	0
so it wasn’t too bad like these are total strangers.	0
[And so I think this is a rekindling and a restoring of that pride and dignity that we need as a community.]	0
That was quite an honor.	0
Because if you look at the harm they done to the whole world, not just us , God see this.	1
And you say it was a way to escape.	0
Okay well anyway, because basically I told them from start to finish which I was in there about six and half months.	0
And I think that there is a difference.	0
While he was working down there he only had twenty minutes to eat.	0
Before he wised up.	0
Thought he was a big man when he left.	0
It was called the Putnam Hall Elementary School.	0
There was a 4th Division stateside that they usually go over as a whole, but when we went over, different people were just sent to different areas.	0
[He is age 69.]	0
We was conditioned for all this, see.	1
But his brother, James Davis Hightower, actually finished medical school and became a doctor and a DDS.	0
And is that your only sibling?	0
Well I'm glad they don't come to school because it's such a nuisance while they're here.	0
What it was it was a little fragment in between, so when I hit it, it would sprain the whole hand.	0
I wanna kind of shift to education, where there any – or what opportunities for education existed like in Fort White?	0
So, once that was done, they needed to kind of consolidate what the programs they had over here.	0
How long did he operate his business?	0
So they would’ve been raised up in the Jerkins system, and then decided to be teachers here.	0
He had to stop school to take care of his father.	0
At the conclusion of the interviews that I do I like to let the person who was so gracious to come in, have any final thoughts.	0
What was Perry like as far as going to the doctor?	0
Right every weekend, you were at a band concert, or a football game, or—	0
She wouldn’t even let us wash the dishes.	0
We believed that you gotta have a strong body, a strong mind, and a willing heart and those are some of the characteristics that I grew up with.	0
[What are their names?]	0
So I cooked and washed my dishes , when it wasn’t my time to wash dishes	0
I had family and marriage, and it was only because the instructor who taught humanities was a great teacher.	0
Well I didn’t get the GI bill , but I got my check from my compensation for getting money while I was getting my forty percent during the time.	0
[We've been doing some work here from time to time with the grounds, and we are with the project to help do the walkway here.]	0
But it wasn’t on a speed mode, it was on regular.	0
It’s just that nothing seems to be in the works — we finally got some sewers, I wish I hadn’t got one because my water bill this month is $101, can you believe it?	0
Let me hand you this, because I think they’re talking a little louder than we are.	0
What were the grocery stores that were in downtown High Springs?	0
There was only one place back in the day that—.	0
Your hair better not be wet, because if they knew you was swimming in that water, then you got another beating.	1
So, it is really a good thing that the University of Florida has taken this step to document this oral history and to put it into a format where it can be assessed by our younger generations coming along because too often, none of my children live here in Perry.	0
But if it was made from this, it’s just more darkness to it.	0
So the post office was right next door.	0
And try to set this up on every two years of doing it.	0
And the dentist?	0
[He was a private chauffeur.]	0
Their work conditions were poor, but yet, they taught.	0
I said, “This boy is giving all kinds of problems out here.”	0
Which they can feed on and feed this stuff to others and tell them, “Look, look.	0
Our goal is to provide our young people coming behind a firm foundation.	0
That, I really can’t describe, because when the move came about, I was already gone.	0
What was that like?	0
Is that something that you were aware of?	0
[This is a community center-slash-precinct thirteen so the county and the city have involvement in this, and we are hoping we get support from them as well.]	0
I wondered if they were gonna have the tour.	0
[And it's very interesting, and very happening to see so many people that was ahead of us, like the teachers and the stuff that we didn't know, all the peoples that was down here, that made Jerkins, you know.]	1
[So, Ethel Penn was her name]	0
There was some going on here in Perry that I heard about, but because I left from home and came to school and all my activities was around school and what was going on here and then I went back home and then, when school was out, my mother would take us down to my grandmother's down in Orlando.	1
So, I didn't get to be out and mix with a whole lot of things that were going on in discrimination and all of that.	0
It was long, we had an intermission.	0
He was the only Black that was on staff.	0
And when they cleaned out my wounds in Quy Nhơn in Vietnam they did not numb me enough as the lady Ms. Sandra was speaking about.	0
And I said, 'He hasn't been to school all this week, so I just said he was sick	0
I know here a lot of people talk about being a preacher’s kid and some of the lifestyle changes that happens with that, so how was that for you?	0
It was near the border.	0
Who were some of the people that worked there?	0
So, she got pregnant , and she was going back to school .	0
Take a risk.	0
She was a beautiful girl.	0
How many men were in a company?	0
This is Marna Weston for the Sam Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida.	0
"As I started going up in the ranks in the school system, getting promoted and stuff, you know, talking to people, one of my tag lines is, I'm just a little country boy out of Perry, Florida."""""	0
So it really didn’t make any difference because everybody was struggling at the same time.	0
We usually don’t bury them , but the United States used that area, so we had to go there and bury them.	0
It was.	0
It’s just not satisfying to me too much anymore.	0
Okay , so how was shopping?	0
And third grade were good teachers.	0
And was a nice guy.	0
We can still hear in the background people meeting each other again and having this exciting opportunity of bringing the focus back on Jerkins High School for this weekend.	0
And Mr. Falls, P.W. Falls; Ms. Roundtree, Sarah Roundtree, which is my homeroom teacher when I was young.	0
I don’t care what color you are or who you are.	0
[We goes to the prison.]	0
There are several teachers that impacted my life.	0
If that service was provided on campus, they would be able to sit in air-conditioned office with some dignity while they're trying to find jobs.	0
but I'm calling to find out how 'bum bum'  is doing.'	0
And like over the years, especially in elementary it was rooted in me that my purpose was to like succeed intellectually and that’s expected of me I dedicated more and more time to make sure I was up to par in where I needed to be.	0
I said I had a younger brother, younger sister, but there was three other cousins.	1
He was my president.	0
I said , “Well, whose name is on the record?”	0
My place of birth was East Palatka, Florida.	0
[and I was to the graduation when]	0
I enjoyed when I would meet these parents to give them a good word about their children and even when I became assistant principal —A good example is a boy; he was just giving his teachers problems.	0
And I don’t like where it is.	0
And what was you church home back in Miami, and then your church home back in Haiti.	0
And that’s named because there were more Gordons living out in that area.	0
It wasn’t on the ground, it was up in the air and here was this big river and here was this train, had their little track going across the river	0
I said, 'But when she pulled this gun and pointed it at me I could see nothing play about that gun.'	0
[I remember Bufferin, it was like in those days ten cents.]	0
So my mom and dad brought them into our home, and she raised them.	0
Okay, went to another level and some of the classes that I take and one of them was a trade in wood working.	0
The first child was a girl but she never came home	0
Okay, Maddie Magali was my mother’s mother, which was my grandmother.	0
I took voice and my sister took piano.	0
Out of this facility, out of this event at least, we are going to have a 2012 mass school reunion.	0
[Yes, I was a Girl Scout, and I was in the glee club, and I was]	0
But they were also times that we, because you’re in a small community, you have so many farmers.	0
They had one daughter and she was in my class at school.	0
[Do you have any other memories beside what he was wearing in the dinner of your grandfather, the impression of that meeting?]	0
And so I assume it happened because he was for what was right and equal for everybody.	0
[Because it was like the whole community was a family and everybody looked after everybody.]	0
I have two brothers who passed in infancy and another brother who passed when he was in his seventies.	0
[Dad was a private chauffeur for a, I don't want to say rich I guess, I can say wealthy family; one of the old families, white people, Caucasian people in the town.]	0
[And then she was sent back to Pennsylvania for her funeral service.]	0
The guy had a superego, and he was heavy in the yoga.	0
And my first job , I was in fifth grade, and I was being paid ten cents an hour.	0
And it’s so very much in context these days, well especially during the Bush presidency, was that so many people were downing Bush and downing everything about him, not thinking that there are troops that need us to believe, that need us to stop sending these messages.	0
That was good and then the teacher told him he wanted him to expand on that	0
Because you know growing up there’s always going to be those friction moments where either things go wrong or there’s an argument at school or whatever it is.	0
It was much more negative than it is now, back in the day.	0
[I'm curious, what is your definition of leadership?]	0
And when and where were you born?	0
They knew I was gone, but when I didn’t return home that night, so they figured I was in the military.	0
That was all she was doing.	0
We shared things from State.	0
Interestingly enough, the house that I now live in now is surrounded by those same people from Foley.	0
That was something Mom and Dad taught you at home 'cause the preacher certainly wasn't to talk about it in church, but that's the way it was in the community.	0
and you talked about a support system, how did that assist your transition going from grade to grade and balancing life as well?	0
We left out of Jacksonville, and they stopped us by— they took us to a Morrison restaurant .	0
I worked in housekeeping , but those same people were still there.	0
He had this huge store and he had fresh meat and he was a butcher and all that.	0
Being the president of the Leadership Council, surely you must have some opinion or thoughts on what leadership is and where your leadership has come from.	0
Well, in case the enemy was trying to move at night.	0
His brother is a doctor and a dentist; he lived in Akron, Ohio.	0
See, most of us, our character values are very evident when we in groups.	0
So I feel like that definitely was part of the decision process, but if I’m gonna be honest, it definitely was not on the lower side.	0
[Oh, he was very uncomfortable.]	0
I feel like that’s the real difference between a PWI and other institutions, is that you have to be willing to go out of your way and putting the effort to reach out and find your community and find where you belong.	0
I thought I was the richest man in here!	0
[And followed by Milton, who is 59.]	0
So, I stayed there that year and Uncle Sam called me so I went to—but see it was instilled in us that we were to be a little better off than a cook and a beautician, housewife and homemaking mother.	0
d to go out and help with the farm and the crops, tobacco, and corn, and also raise the hogs and cows.	0
Okay, in her home town, her church is Methodist.	0
I put Martin Luther King there, but wasn’t King, it was J .F.	0
[It sounds like he was pretty serious.]	0
And before I got out of high school, I guess I might as well say this, a young lady that I was dating —I’m going say as my dentist said: I had an “ oops ” at a young age.	0
But a lady that studies genealogy , she did give me a paper listing those, which I didn’t know.	0
I was working at Shands.	0
So he was the Presbyterian preacher for a long time.	0
Well there was that house across from where we had our church, the Methodist church, there’s a house right over on the left.	0
Has it always been a funeral home down here in downtown where the funeral home is?	0
And so how specifically, I know you talked about tuition and opportunities they provide financially, but are there any resources or programs that they offer within itself?	0
[Looking back on it, at the time, the wisdom, the life experience you've gained, why didn't the marriage take?]	0
[Were there other brothers or sisters in between?]	0
I was in New York.	0
[And the teachers were more.]	0
Okay, it was a nice day.	0
I don’t know how to tell you where it is, but it’s really pretty up on a hill out there, not too far from this main road.	0
See, that’s where the mistake is made.	0
Three boys, there were no girl chores, there were chores.	0
I can’t think of what Ms. Whitford ’ first name is right now , and I can’t think of what Ms. Johnson’ first name was.	0
[The members of the Taylor County Leadership Council, Dr. Horace McCloud, was telling us that we have a large a percentage of African American males not graduating from high school, that we have drop outs.]	1
We carried him up there, get him signed up with that physics and zoology and chemistry and all that so he changed his major —	0
What were the names of some of those restaurants?	0
[Well, I played basketball over here, and we was in music, and wasn't too many clubs over here.]	1
So what is gonna happen is that, those of us that survive and return back to the most high God, is going to be taken by ships back to their country and strangers gonna be joined with them and these strangers are gonna be servants and handmaids.	1
You talked about like with Lincoln there was the values of having accountability with the parents and the students and the teachers having that relationship as well as you know inspiring and cultivating interest, in an integrated society how do you feel that predominantly Black institutions can continue the values instilled at older schools like Lincoln?	0
That was given to us from Taylor County High School, yet they taught.	0
That was a scary time.	0
And it didn’t make any difference whether you was White or Black.	1
Okay, would you tell us where you were born?	0
But anyway, she had, I think it was three boys and an older girl.	0
[It was a sort of—how should I say it—classroom by classroom, it was not done over the intercom.]	0
[No there was the, how shall I say it?]	0
The jets dropped canisters of napalm which when it hits the ground it’s a big ball of fire.	0
[She just got right, all your business was right there. .]	0
We always took care of each other.	0
[The late James Hughes was my first cousin, our mothers were sisters and our dads were brothers.]	0
I thought that was the basic, you couldn’t get no lower than that.	0
I like to finish the interview giving you the opportunity to say anything that you would like, and at the conclusion of your remarks that’ll finish the interview.	0
[Do you want a drink we are going to run to the gas station?]	0
[Or were you in NAACP before that?]	0
And I can relate to what they was talking about.	1
That was one incident.	0
he started out at cleaning at this store -old store in Gainesville by the name of Pick and Save.	0
He owned the drug store and he was the pharmacist and he was just wonderful.	0
And this had to be, like, in the 50s.	0
What is your definition of leadership sir?	0
[We was all right.]	1
When my parents, before they got married, it's my understanding, that my father told my mother if there are any children come in they will go to my Pleasant United Methodist Church.	0
See this one doesn’ t jump out.	0
Her name is Detra Clayton.	0
So a gentleman, John Loughridge, donated the city this land to build this park and it bears his name.	0
I want to know in your opinion what is a difference or differences that you can point out between the type of education that you received at Central Academy , and what young people are receiving today?	0
Miami because it was the hub of — Florida in general was the hub of Haitians coming in and Miami was like the central of Florida for the Haitian community, I feel.	0
Where was it located?	0
After high school, were there a lot of opportunities for people in your area in Fort White to attend college?	0
She was trying to force you to take an option that you had, but you didn’t want to take that option.	0
So they seen me at the VA, psychologists, psychiatrists, and after probably about maybe three or four months, they denied that my war experience had anything to do with what was going on with me.	0
And when that round went up it was only going probably about maybe thirty-five feet out.	0
[I was a member of the NAACP]	0
and I was supposed—an advisor had me all down to get my degree, my Ph.D either 57 or 58.	0
I mean I knew what I was going through.	0
Because we didn’t live near them , so I didn’t know a lot of people, my relatives , on his side, except a couple of —you know, one sister.	0
And then once you got into the military, did you notice racist issues there?	0
Okay, we were bused.	0
All the way from Mississippi —which I look at Mississippi and it’s a good thing.	0
[Phase Two we would like to also revitalize bathroom facilities in this cafeteria.]	0
I said , “Well you are entitled to get it back	0
It wasn’t—it was Emporium, but the first pair of shoes that I bought came from Clifford Shoe Store in Perry, and my pants and stuff came from Emporium.	0
I said, “Who is it?”	0
Now it’s a hundred and one this month.	0
[So we come along and kept it going, and I wish that my grandkids were still here so they could keep it going.]	0
No, this is in 67.	0
So it's the idea of trying to give students the idea that you can accomplish.	0
The boy ’ name is Joshua.	0
You know , you got a family you were supporting.	0
But there were opportunities for people to go off to college.	0
And once you became positive that it was right, you were ready to argue with me if I said it was wrong.	0
So, I did and the life I lived is what they taught me even to this day.	0
But I am now more comfortable reaching out to people if I need help or information or whatever it is and that really has made the process so much easier.	0
Methodist.	0
Now what about this First Presbyterian Church, the block over?	0
I was so out done; I didn't even know what to do.	0
They had placed here in a rural school right down the road about five miles and the school's name was Hampton Spring Elementary.	0
[Did you actually, if not know specifically did you know of who the people in the Klan were actually here locally?]	0
So I was examined in September of 60— 67?	0
There are some meetings when were talking about bringing  there was an incense where they thought the town was bringing in all these ticket plants, or the town was borrowing water from some of our local rivers.	0
And HRS wasn’t nowhere around!	0
So, none of your dad’s people, and just the one younger uncle who was kind of your age	0
But luckily for me, I wasn’t the only one.	0
He was from a young mother , he was from the second time that my grandfather was married.	0
So in its essence, slavery equals the development of racial issues, that’s where we see the roots of racial inequality, educational disparities, impoverished communities and other instances where African American people are set in a position where they have less to work with than other people in similar situations.	0
So that wasn’t,  big deal.	0
We would have Sunday school , but the Sunday school teacher and my dad was the oldest two men as deacons, and you know they only was —they was unlearned with so much that they didn’t	1
It was tremendous, had a great time, great experience for me.	0
I was in the Service for two years.	0
I’m currently attending the University City Church of Christ.	0
And we learned, as a principal I learned the most important thing in a classroom is a good teacher.	0
They had good potential in life and it reminded me what the Bible said “The race is not through the swiftest but the one that endured to the end”.	0
And, she finished school, right?	0
[The suit was still underway, yes and in fact, I think it was 67 or 68 all funds have been pulled and head start had to be down at Vol Tech.]	0
My mother was a Baptist because her mother was a Baptist.	0
And it’s so funny that my husband was staying with some people in Holland, too.	0
[And where was she born?]	0
If there is something that we haven't discussed that you'd like to talk about please feel free.	0
It might’ve been when I was a senior in high school.	0
But home gave me a foundation that I wasn’t easy to sway about what was in the world once I went out on my own.	0
They were out to get you?	0
So we were – great time for me and graduated my academic -my athletic eligibility, my junior year, so I had another year athletic ability.	0
[They are talking about having another reunion two years from now.]	0
But he was in second grade at a school here and they had him going down to special education for an hour or two hours or something like that for him to learn how to write his name: second grade.	0
Just wanna say no racism or hardships, while I attended university.	0
[That is an incredible accomplishment at any time, at any age, what to you attribute that to, that your team was able to be successful twice in that regard?]	0
Yes you are.	0
[Well, what is the solution?]	0
[The late Thelma Bishop and the late Izell Richardson.]	0
[You mention that you had children, what are their names and how old are they?]	0
That is so ugly.	0
And I was back in the perimeter, so I didn’t go out.	0
After I was in Basic Training.	0
It seems like today there’s so many parents that are just like “Meh, you know, whatever.”	0
It wasn’t he was wounded and he died later?	0
No, we were treated courteous.	0
There was a lot, but I didn’t get into it with anything.	0
When I came home, I was spat on.	0
He was still my commander-in-chief.	0
[Corporal punishment?]	0
What were the names of your parents and if you have any sisters and brothers would you please state their names as well?	0
Okay, now, you have another article here that you wanted to share.	0
My dad theory—he and my mom—their theory on life was, you don’t have to work.	0
And most often we never say thank you to them because frankly we weren't quite grateful during the time that we were going through their classes.	0
[And, there are so few of Black teachers want to work in Perry as well.]	0
Those are the kinds of things that we can do.	0
I just think back upon what High Springs was and what it is now, what are your thoughts?	0
Because you were in high school when all these changes were taking place with the Civil Rights Movement : when the lunch counters started, and the Freedom Rides.	0
At first he was very affectionate, but now he’s getting back to his own tricks.	0
So, she really was like the mastermind behind the school lunches here?	0
[But of course, Jerkins was the other part of the team of what my parents started and yes no doubt about it.]	0
Maybe go out there part -time and see how it goes , but not turn my job loose, because once you turn it loose they don’t have to take you back and it was because of a back problem.	0
And her name is Diedre Latrine Clayton.	0
We were very active, and we did that every year for …twenty years.	0
When I started making a couple of bucks, I got French cuffs and I got custom made suits because that's what I saw my minister.	0
Another sense, it was bad.	0
[So what is it that makes, oh excuse me for a second.]	0
And I’m saying now, we had already done been to a war , and now we got to come back here and have to deal with something like this.	0
[They didn't understand what the sympathy sit in was about.]	0
What was the first camera that you ever used?	0
Well when I finished playing college football, I moved back home to Fort White, and 1999.	0
It was May, I can’t remember her last name, but she was good in her work and she became — she worked at Shands as a, she typed those little earphones for the doctor.	0
You say Mr. Mullins was the principal.	0
Well going back when I was like when I was at home, I was only the only girl out of six boys , so mostly I didn’t have to work.	0
[But in the school system it wasn't.]	0
She was, I think my sister going to Jacksonville.	0
But, when you're by yourself, and you sitting down doing your income tax, are you just as honest then as you are if the group was watching you?	0
Wherever people were needed, they sent you there.	0
When we disciplined them and set an example.	0
Ms. Bonnie Collins lived there, and she’s never been married, she was Ms. Bonnie Collins, but she was middle aged woman.	0
She was the first person that ever cut my hair.	0
That character was the essence of your being and that you had to exhibit the kind of the character that people would admire, hopefully they would emulate, but they would see you as a person of good, sound character, which meant you had to act that character when no one was around.	0
We all got in those craters and during that time you don’t stick your head up to see where the enemy is.	0
And, my mother wanted me to go to school because education was a big thing in my family.	0
It was called Chippinni’s.	0
But when I did get back from Japan in, I think I got stateside in February of 68—I think it was 68— that’s when Martin Luther King got killed.	0
[I think that was around 56—57.]	0
All of those things we had them there in the yard fresh vegetables, fresh fruits and they were canned – string beans, canned peaches, canned pears, and all that.	0
She would have her supervisor probably would've provided, you know, or requested that they purchase certain things in certain places because she did have someone over her, but that other lady's name was Mrs. McClain who was the Home Economics instructor here.	0
And, that is basically what we are about.	0
Because what happened, one of the guys put shaving cream on the squad leader’s dust cover , and nobody —of course, I didn’t know who did it —nobody would tell who did it, so he punished the whole squad.	0
So being surrounded by people that were, like you said earlier, like -minded	0
It was called a café.	0
I started having bad nightmares, headaches.	0
No, there was a railroad track , but it was before my time.	0
"What I'm going to do this summer"""	0
[So, but we had a wonderful school you know, wonderful teachers and principal Mr. Homer Smith was my principal so.]	0
[By being the best that we can be whatever color and because we are Black we don't regret it one bit.]	0
[And who were your parents?]	0
So as a Haitian American as a young Black man in the African American community, are there programs, information or classes out there that gets you more involved within that community itself?	1
He passed when my father was twelve years old.	0
That wasn’t so good; the crawling sensation in my head.	0
[My mother said, to go to school every day, you would have to stay quiet in class, you cannot disrupt the class and you must take advantage of every opportunity that presented.]	0
So my grandmother was Cherokee Indian.	0
So it was really well -balanced in the way where I got support from all the right people that I needed and at the same time I got a little shove also from all the right people.	0
I was lookin’ out for her.	0
and I was waiting to get a job after I stayed out five years.	0
I was basic, but not what I call “ skilled ” that somebody could overhaul an engine like my granddaddy did or my uncle did.	0
So did you write home and tell your parents where you were or how did that whole process of breaking the news?	0
There's some other services that are needed, but until we get that building renovated to the point that we can offer the services in the building, we're sort of hampered.	0
When he was, like, ten years old.	0
Yeah they did and three coaches was Coach White, Coach Coho, and Coach Moe, and I think they all went to Florida A&M.	0
What was your thing?	0
But they didn’t know what it was.	0
When you were growing up, did you kind of feel that?	0
my grandmother and my granddaddy was from Virginia.	1
So is this an online class or an in person class?	0
The brownie was the 120, I think.	0
So they put me on a delayed enlistment program for six months.	0
Her name is Thelma Lee Clayton	0
But anyway they had killed these Vietnamese, and normally that we don't bury the enemy, but it was an area that the United States used; a convoy going through.	0
She still take people kids in, you know, when they're having a hard time girls having a hard time in life and all kind of traumatic things happening to them she's still doing the same thing that she was did.	0
While she was here— she was off at college— when she came home she got married to a boy in the Navy and they got married in the Presbyterian Church.	0
Well it was better received among Whites than it was Blacks because a lot of the guys resented the fact that they had to do this.	0
[What kind of activities were you involved with in high school?]	0
The man that most for me is a coach— he’s a retired coach from Mebane.	0
Well, whenever that period was , okay .	0
She was a teacher.	0
And the people that got wounded real bad —after everything had cooled down, no enemy around, the medevac came in and lowered a basket .	0
There was opportunities for whatever you wanted to do.	1
But some of the food was shared, particular the vegetables from tomato, corn, okra, collard greens, mustard greens, all those things.	0
So when he told her that this girl was the only student that he ever taught —he had been teaching ten or twelve years , full schedules, five classes a day —who could come up and get the hall pass and go out and get fresh air because she was an asthmatic and she running all up and down the hall , the momma said, “I didn’t know it was like that .”	0
[Okay this is Marna Weston with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program on August 20, 2010 at the Jerkins Historic Marker Dedication and Reunion.]	0
So my psychiatrist, I told her about it, she say , “I think you need to come out for a while.”	1
And I must say, that’s one thing that we try to do at Lincoln, get the cooperation of the parent.	0
We were just talking about the Presbyterian Church, had you visited before.	0
There so many —in eleventh grade we had a prom , which was nice.	0
I was just looking at the black and white stuff up there.	0
so I said “Something gotta be wrong with this.	0
So it kind of kids the opinion, hopefully, is that it's not where I started from that's the most important thing, it's what do I want to accomplish and how am I going get there?	0
I don’t think he finished his degree there, but he was doing ROTC and Army Reserve.	0
So they had the experience and they knew how to sculpt and I feel like the patience was there and that was really the important thing because I know the first year I really struggled and then I started to pick up pace and then really evolve.	0
And when you ran into the enemy, they was ready to fight.	1
Now Barack Obama is my commander in chief.	0
What was it that you liked about it?	0
now it was?”	0
Fort White is an incorporated town, it’s a small town, but it is incorporated.	0
I was able to—myself and Jane Washington, which was another saxophone player—was able to write a song our senior year.	1
But by the time we got there, they didn’t calm down, and I’m saying to myself , “Now I’ve been to war, and I’m coming back for this kind of stuff .”	0
And that was my escape.	0
And well, when the night was over, then you’d get your gear and come on back to perimeter where you were set up before you left.	0
[Of course I knew all this before we got married, but at age 19, 20, you just don't, like I say, good hindsight.]	0
Right now, there is not an employment office in Taylor County.	0
When they were speaking about the books, I can attest to the fact, that yeah, it was part of the books, the pages was missing, and some books there were whole chapters missing.	1
Those people were there and then of course the post office.	0
And back in the day, that was the way most people got they water.	0
He should be talking 'bout Roman numerals at the same time they're talking about some Greek, or something in history, about European history.	0
[What about your brothers and sisters?]	0
Mullen , all three of those are deceased.	0
We had to set a mortar up in the bomb crater , because there was a guy, the enemy, that had—I don’t know whether they had a machine gun or not —but anyway, we had to set it up in that bomb crater, which, when you shoot that round up, it look like about the size of a pepsi cola bottle.	1
I went to the psychiatrist, psychologist; talking didn’t help.	0
So they’re considered the Columbia city area, but many of their family is really tied to Fort White.	1
She said, “Because if the daddy knew this well the daddy has a better chance of custody .”	0
I spoke with a man, it’s kind of a random story, but I was interviewing another guy whose friend went to Vietnam.	0
[Science was my favorite subject and I hold right now a Bachelor's in biology and a Masters in chemistry, but I would have to say my favorite teacher was Coach Turner.]	0
I wanted to videotape a little bit , because you were just really telling a story .	0
"This lady jumped up in the back of the room, I thought so!"""""	0
Was Brooklyn a predominantly African- American area, or was it mixed residences?	0
This was the worstest experience that I had.	0
And what are their names?	0
But before they moved in, you know - there were times I had to wash the dishes and the next day I had to go outside and do yard work.	0
We used to have a good time at Post Springs and Blue Springs was almost like an ocean, you know, the beach.	0
In fact, I was so impacted about the instructors and how they shaped my life and prepared me for the future, I have since returned three hundred and sixty degrees.	0
You know , aunts, uncles, from your parents.	0
and it’s one’s ability, long suffering, perseverance, along with your knowledge and wisdom, your understanding and practicality and also you know you gotta put it in practice.	0
This predominately White neighborhood that we lived in, you know	0
The math and stuff that I had in high school was different from today.	0
I was already registered, by the time he got there	0
And, she worked and served this community and the kids that lunchroom with love and concern until the school was phased out.	0
This is Marna Weston for the Sam Proctor Oral History Project on April 30, 2011 and I’m again in the home of Ms. Madeline Thompson.	0
And so I have a younger brother, has seven years younger than me, and I have a sister that’s ten years younger.	0
[She was born in 1901 and I was born in 1930, so she's twenty-nine or thirty years older than me.]	0
For high school, my English teacher, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, we did what we wanted to in this class.	0
My grandfather was also a mechanic, back in the 1920s, so he was very mechanically -inclined .	0
[Because segregation was there, and I wanted to be a part of this organization that was going to fight the segregation, yeah.]	0
I was vice president of the senior class , but I wasn’t in all of these different clubs.	0
and he said, “Daddy, teacher said this is a real good one and they want me to discuss it in the class .”	0
And my grandfather he was the mechanic.	0
My mom never —she went to college later on after we got older and were able to help her .	0
It’s brought you places that I can imagine when you were sitting there, playing your horn in the backyard, and you were not thinking “I was going to end up playing basketball all over the world!”	0
Some people were coming back home, and we were coming in.	0
And the bad thing about that, we had just got back , and I was stationed at Fort Benning .	0
Where are they?	0
That was the—	0
The jury and prosecutors say “Well he took his wife and put her in a helicopter and went out and dumped her in the ocean”.	0
What is her full name?	0
[As a matter of fact, I was out here, I was going to school, I think I was at seventh grade when my mom died.]	0
I was expected to have a level of restraint for certain things and I was supposed to be the nice kid that was always helping put and for the most part I feel like that is me as a person, just because I was grown up that way, but I don’t know.	0
One was an English book — both of them had English and then the other just had office practice and then I had two shorthand and office practice.	0
So, what was the story?	0
[Who are your mother and father?]	0
Like White teachers that say, “These books are clearly wrong and we don’t know how to teach them, so we would love to have some oral histories from African American people to help us teach these classes.”	0
One of the big issue, you know I grew up in the late 70s, early 80s, when I was in middle and high school.	0
That gives me momentum to keep on fighting for what I believe in, to keep on pushing for better education, being a better parent, being a better man, proving people wrong who said you couldn’t achieve it, who said you couldn’t make it.	0
Yeah, Ms. Armbrister.	0
Now that, I was surprised Bonnie could come every week.	0
Well we were not the well to do family.	0
He was on the other side.	0
"And I would always read them and there would always be something in them saying, A Concert Pianist."""	0
I miss that train going across the Columbia Springs River.	0
Momma, she wasn’t sick or anything	0
And you finished your grammar education there?	0
The C -ration was canned food.	0
And this is what	0
You could get by , change the oil and see what was going on.	0
And all of a sudden they hear people talk about when they played basketball and they are struck.	0
This building across the street that’s the community theater now —	0
Dr. Horace McCloud, I'd like to thank you for this opportunity to speak with you about the Jerkins Historic Marker Dedication and the celebration that took here at the Jerkins Community Center in Perry on August 21, 2010.	0
And plus , outside, we had our little P .E. area to go out and play.	0
[It was very insightful and I appreciate your thoughts and your candor.]	0
But when I first got there I had to go through a process station which was the fourth division in a place called Pleiku.	0
Everything is not just like it was when I was home.	0
But actually, probably what really saved us from being destroyed by the enemy was—they wouldn’t let the gunships come in, but the jets did come in, and they dropped little cluster bombs at the base of the hill .	0
[All of this speaks so much of leaders being built in your family.]	0
And they were so good to him.	0
Nope, you have to learn English, you gotta and, he's right.	0
Okay, do you remember —do you know your grandparents?	0
I want to back you up a little bit, because I asked you about the first time you were scared, and then you took me through what happened to D .C., and you talked about leaving and being hurt and going to Japan.	0
I just really bared down on that English.	0
[I don't really have anything other than that she was a stroke victim.]	0
So, that particular incident , when things were over, they called in the helicopters so we could get our dead out.	0
This Mr.Rawls he said you haven't been coming to school and when I leave home you had your breakfast and you supposed to be on your way to school, you haven't been going to school?'	0
And was there a railroad tracks separating the east and the west side of town?	0
[So, when you fighting against like I tell all the kids, stomp out all this foolishness.]	0
If the parents know that you mean well, and you are going to try to help the students, their children and help them and the things will work out better.	0
And I’m finding out that I’m kin to people I had no idea that I was kin to.	0
And I stayed there for a while and these two departments, pharmacy and sterile supply were located—i t’s like in the same building, same area.	0
So was that a weird feeling, to be like—	0
What was your wage?	0
So how is your experienced with mayor?	0
All of it is Putnam County.	0
And where was she from?	0
It was a old wooden building, and I think we probably had a wood stove back during the day —I think, I can’t quite remember.	0
What were your earliest memories of your education?	0
Really, that was his home?	0
That was a three separate room building, and I forgot how the grades was divided up.	1
I worked for the State of Florida for thirty-five years and that was where I experienced it.	0
So he graduated from Howard and interesting thing, his roommate at FAMU, all A's and one B	0
They were just filling y’all in.	0
If you needed something we would provide it and that's what a parent's supposed to do.	0
Okay and what was his name?	0
I’ve always been a shy person, so I wasn’t one of the most talkative, talkative here, mingle here and mingle there.	0
It’s facing the sunny area and facing the street so we’re a getting a chance to get a little sunlight in here today.	0
And I had two weeks home after finishing advanced training , and shipped to Vietnam, which my route was through Fort Dix, New Jersey, and then on over to Vietnam , and that was in 1967.	0
"[And most of the people in the town told us not to do it, we were going to be arrested, What are you doing that for?""]"""	0
He and his brother both went, really.	0
My mother had done put me back twice because she said I was going too fast.	0
The disabilities	0
The punishment of this kingdom, no kingdom slaveth forever.	0
Yes, they brought awareness just through other ways in which they would bring awareness to government programs or activities.	0
Later on when I got into middle school, she went back to school and got her nursing degree, and she became a nurse at one of the nursing home she actually was a cook and cleaner at.	0
All they had to do was just—the enemy was at the foot of the hill.	0
Deep down in my soul and in my spirit I want to take care of it because my mother was so well-known here.	0
Every now and then, I visit her church.	0
Her car caught on fire when she was coming home from Alaba ma, I guess.	0
As far as members in our community, they just didn’t understand what it take to run a city government and I was always fighting for our town, is a small town, lot of low income families .	1
Pharmacist.	0
[I knew that wasn't my phone.]	0
I said, 'Get you some textbooks and look in the index then go in the library in that particular area and look it up.'	0
She married my father she was more interested in being a seamstress	0
Well, actually, we wasn’t really welcomed.	1
I think what we need is trying to improve communications and that’s communicating between the home and the school.	0
Yes, so my community in Miami was made up of church, family, teachers and friends at school for the most part.	0
And most of the time while we were out in the street catching ball my father would be sitting on the porch to make sure that we were in front of his house, his yard and not the neighbors.	0
[Just which ever you would care to talk about.]	0
It was a lot.	0
This was our guidance counselor, who was also our music teacher here at Jerkins.	0
One of the things I learned attending the University of Florida I felt like I lost out on a lot of things that I would get at a Historically Black College/University which is why intend to go to Howard Law School , but do you feel like there’ a difference, a big difference in going to a Predominantly White Institution as opposed to a Historically Black College or University?	0
And we had a band was called the “D&B” the “Death and the Blind” from St. Augustine.	0
And this senior boy wanted me to dance with him, which I did.	0
And, you know, they had to call artillery in, which the enemy know the closer they are to us, the safer they are.	1
Well, you was at home— —at that time because that’s what you was used to.	1
It wasn’t long that I went there.	0
Her name was Jeannie Cooper , and during that time we had a music period.	0
Another incident is somebody killed a bunch of—there's two types of people you fight.	0
It was only one White woman and one White man come to our church and he tried to give us something.	0
So I was complaining to the doctor , because I was having pain problem with my shoulder.	0
His name was Jimmy Cooper.	0
I think my brother, Marcus Hightower, his class was actually the last class to remove their tassels in 1970.	0
There was times that we was in a fire support base which was artilleries, a motor setup to come in for a few days.	1
but I guess she was right there.	0
Yes it is.	0
But it was the inspiration which they instilled in us that they wanted us to be better off than they were.	0
Give a test to this one, give the same test to this one.	0
[My wife's name is Carolyn Demps and she just retired from the school system as the Director of Pre-K]	0
[but then somehow my mother, my mother and her sisters seemed to want to go to the Episcopal church, I think their thinking was that it was a better church, it was better.]	0
So you know, I loved dancin’ and he - his name was Wendell Beaton Ball and could he dance, I am telling you he was a good dancer.	0
But not the fear where they are afraid of you, but the fear that if they do something wrong, they know the consequences, Because we all have fear.	0
We had to wear evening dresses to that and that was fun going to those.	0
So you were the replacements , but you became a part of that group?	0
I rose to the position of Department Head of Social Studies at Lincoln, then Assistant Principal and then Principal here at the school district.	0
So, I’m trying to get a feel for what it really looked, and sounded, and felt like to be in that kind of a firefight situation, because all I know is what I’ve seen in the movies.	0
In Fort White, you mentioned that there weren’t many jobs, but were there any – do you know if there were any Black owned businesses here in the area at the time.	0
Because we used to go places with my dad, but that’s about —I didn’t go to school there, so there was no remembrance of schooling .	0
She was trying to build up a bad record.	0
It isn’t like that anymore.	0
Knowing that your family was mixed up, did that help you cope with what was going or did it hurt you to think my family does fine with all these races in it, why can’t the rest of the world?	0
That was not it , they worked on that and they found out who it was .	0
Evangeline Grimes and my brother’s name is Ernest Vincent Clayton.	0
and I had planned to get, I was getting’ low on gas.	0
[Way I see it, feel like is Black kids to have Black teachers and stuff to relate to, because they care, and they know what we up against.]	0
His reply was , “If y’all want me to go back to college, choose a different school for me.	0
But things that bothered us was not here at Jerkins.	1
That was really .	0
Some of my best friends were Kappas and some of my friends were Alphas, but Qs are men.	0
And so you did most of the kind of like raising and taking care of and cooking for your siblings?	0
Back home the worship was really upbeat.	0
Her name is Regina Dennison.	0
There were times that I was a little upset , particularly early on when I wasn’t playing, I was a pretty good athlete I high school.	0
Any country overseas, I had an opportunity to go visit.	0
And to listen to some of the success stories that came out of Jerkins, we had good instructors.	0
And so was it,	0
What was his demeanor?	0
[Well Mr. Hughes this has been fascinating to hear, your family story of success, the stories of your ties and deep belief and deep believe of the community here in Jerkins High School, and in God.]	0
Okay, what are your two churches?	0
And who is that taught by?	0
And Mr. Thomson was one of them.	0
[What was your favorite subject in school and who was your favorite teacher?]	0
[My expectation is that it will continue.]	0
He was from D.C.	0
We’re in Pugh Hall in our conference, and our guest to be interviewed today is Mr. Cornelius Clayton.	0
I don’t think that I really lost anybody before that time that I was really close to.	0
[And what are their names?]	0
That’s a lot of stress on one person, when you came in what were you like eighteen?	0
 So he went up to FAMU and he was the first student at FAMU to graduate with all A's and his roommate graduated with one B and all A's and both of them went to Howard.	0
But you know , you would not go— like, if it was a White tavern, that somebody might just say a racist name.	0
But the first year was really a struggle for me just because, I don’t know, being so young I guess.	0
All he wanted to do was play the drums.	0
So what are your memories of Jerkins?	0
[Do you think that Jerkins made a leader of you and what is your definition of leadership?]	0
And that it really doesn't matter where you're from, universities are going to accept you based on your SAT scores, your averages, the courses you've taken in high school.	0
He was a medium build man.	0
[And we got so many issues that we have to contract over here first.]	0
She was a full-time 	0
[What was it like living in that home?]	0
About four months before I got out, I started having a crawling sensation in my head—which , I was still having the headaches and the nightmares.	0
[Do you remember where you were when you heard that Jerkins High School had been closed?]	0
The $10,000 was the insurance that the service men had.	0
[Norristown, Pennsylvania.]	0
[Do you expect it to continue, what are your expectations toward that?]	0
And there was an update with my grandfather had one was called a Brownie.	0
You could tell they knew what they were doing by the way they were coming in because of your training?	0
Our youth department was very active, there was activities from vacation bible school to bible study every Wednesday night.	1
[Do you ever recall, or do you have memories of speaking to your grandfather about his business?]	0
I assumed that was Alachua.	0
So we had to go in thinking about taking care of each other and protecting each other.	0
I was thinking about that when you called me, and I was thinking of—I was looking up “ Jesus keep me near the cross ”.	0
[and you probably have many thoughts about it, but before I speak about Jerkins, I was just curious, what was that Vietnam experience like for you?]	0
[And where were you born?]	0
He was ROTC and Army Reserve.	0
He also got his Ph.D. from Indiana University.	0
So, too much of our history have died with our parents and our grandparents.	1
I would imagine he’s probably at the top that he can be at his rank, probably sergeant commander.	0
So then communication has to have fallen and as communication falls, cooperation is falling and in legal communication as well as illegal communication.	0
[This Jerkins historical marker dedication and reunion it seems to be a time of great joy.]	0
What was your senior year like?	0
It was definitely prior to coming to UF.	0
and so I taught History	0
So did you say that this was in Fort White or in between?	0
My parents both are deceased: Cornelius Clayton, and Ruby Lee Clayton.	0
Do you believe that the truth commission in Haiti was effective?	0
I was born in the small island of Haiti, next to the Dominican Republic.	0
There was a lady from Putnam Hall just as my son said “just a friend.”	0
[Well it was different because I was from the first set of kids, the first three that were born were fifteen years difference between the first three and the latter three.]	0
' He can't read Mesopotamia but he had sense enough to sit up in the classroom and listen to what was going on.	0
Winnette and me, that’s my sister.	0
[So this was a decision that said, that the schools, how they were behaving was appropriate, is that correct?]	0
Because you see he was a cook and he’d mess up a spoon, the dishwasher washed that spoon her, washed the spoon and oh, he’s mess up so many dishes.	0
[Well it's important because I just wanted to let them see where I was having to start, from where we started from, and where we are going.]	0
[I was in Melbourne, Florida and well, they was closing schools there too, and that's where I was.]	1
[One that are able to take charge, see something that need to be done and be willing to do it.]	1
[Well my definition would be is do onto others as you will have them do onto you.]	0
[What was his name?]	0
Okay , so we was patrolling through the woods, we go up on this big hill that the United States had had an air strike on.	1
My sister has six, three boys and three girls.	0
[That was the main course right there: to join in and get an education, because without that education, you is nothing.]	1
Most of the time the parents when they come to the school , they’re trying to be a friend to the child and they’re taking up for the child saying.	0
Those words were meaningful because it helped me to learn the English language.	0
He was also in the Glee Club, the male chorus.	0
Ever since I was an infant.	0
All of this doesn’t make sense, geometry, we don’t need that .”	0
I think I was the senior class president, and one year I was the student government president.	0
So he was going to go to a Black school so we told him , “Sign up for South Carolina State, North Carolina A&T, Alabama State, Tennessee State, and Southern University .”	0
Was Orlando any less dangerous or less racial than Perry was?	0
I was the youngest in my class	0
If I was a teacher, it would have been gratifying to me.	0
She wasn’t even my girlfriend, just somebody I carried.	0
[So it was a landmark decision.]	0
[They wanted all chapters nationwide to hold this sympathy demonstration.]	0
But just that was where if you were Colored, that’s where you received service.	0
I go to their birthdays and Christmas and Thanksgiving.	0
[She was a finalist in the year 2000 for the Georgia Nurse of the Year, and I'm second in the family, Bishop Tommy Hughes in next to me, then James Hughes who retired as a project engineer for the Air Force, and Warner Robins in forth, and next to him will be Henry Hughes, and next to him will be Dr. John Hughes of Houston, Texas, in fact when they decided to implement an accelerated medical program at the University of South Florida the first Black to receive his degree from that program.]	0
Following me is my sister Dephanie Lafortune, then Rebeccas Lafortune, Benjamin Lafortune, and the Grace Lafortune.	0
[Yes, my sister.]	0
You was born to your teachers.	1
Fruit , and whenever we had a big breakfast in the morning; grits, bacon, sausage, and biscuits.	0
When I was about in 1953, I stayed in Philadelphia for about two and a half years.	0
This is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program at the Jerkins Community Center in Perry, Florida.	0
We couldn’t come out the crater and they could have killed everything that was up there, but God was with us.	0
So you were the perimeter watch, basically.	0
"And, man, I was like, Wow!"""	0
Yeah, it was hot.	0
well -driller, also, like my grandfather was.	0
And that’s where you would—like the United American, not the guys who’s fighting , but if they was shooting from a helicopter or a plane, they would use what they called tracers.	1
Like, I taught my kids the truth about things like that so when they grow up they’ll understand why things are like they now.	0
[Secondly, Jerkins had a very important part in our formative development, even though it was compulsory attendance we had to go to school somewhere, I'm glad that I attended Jerkins, because at that time we all had a hunger to move to the next level.]	0
Do you have much memory of your grandparents?	0
[That project that I mentioned earlier—in terms of beautifying this facility, in terms of revitalization—I'm hoping that that will bring the community together and we take back ownership in this project.]	0
And it wasn’t always in this building, but did you go to some of the churches and the Masonic Lodge?	0
What else was on Main Street?	0
And so this country and your history here and what this country is, is worth a human life?	0
Often times, people mistake leadership and management.	0
And so he came into the door, she was right opposite.	0
So was that message well received amongst Black and White soldiers and probably Native American?	0
So if anything is down there they are cooked.	0
[And, our wives, all of our wives, six of the Demps women were school teachers and most of them worked in this area.]	0
It restored peace because it brought awareness and showed what was really happening.	0
And then we went back, because really we would normally have went to Putnam Hall and stayed there until we finished eighth grade, so I really don’t know what the reason was, unless the attendance was low, and they shift some of us that way.	0
I guess they was studying about photography and this was like maybe the fourth grade , so I went , and I showed them different pictures that I’ve taken and talked about down to the generations the pictures that I’v e taken.	1
[School was a real challenge for us and it was a place to go and they expected graduation of us, and, then, if we didn't graduate, and even after graduation we had to go to the saw mills to the log woods and take mediocre jobs.]	0
Yes with the support system, the support system was more than just the students, it was the teachers also because they were used to teaching students who’s English was their second language.	0
Okay we’ll start with —what is your date and place of birth?	0
We got into a fist fight or something, the next five minutes or fifteen minutes we was hugging people, laughing, or drinking a soda together, or whatever it was.	1
Why that is?	0
And maybe I’ll kind of close it out all about Vietnam is when I got wounded which was November the 11th, 1967.	0
and I miss that.	0
Were there people whose parents didn’t really seem to care?	0
Well, he claimed that this Black man was making waves with his wife.	0
Because I started school when I was five years old and I graduated too early.	0
No no taking pictures because I’ve been doing that since I was twelve.	0
My sister and I told mom, I said, “When I was growing up mom was about 5’4, 5’5	0
 I might be misquoting the term you used and I'm sure you can correct me in a moment	0
[His philosophy was about everything: football, basketball, track, drill, and swimming.]	0
This is a state highway.	0
No, when I grew up there were no Black owned business here in Fort White.	0
And his wife and he had asthma but he went in service and he died from asthma.	0
You see one thing about it, it helped me in a way because mom told us about all this and granddaddy, when I was a little boy, granddaddy sat us down and told us a story of his daddy and different things what happened and how things happened.	0
Okay, were you speaking of when I was getting ready to go to Vietnam?	0
And our band was the D &B band,	0
I’m sorry I was gonna ask you, what was the teacher ’s name in sixth grade?	0
[Okay and also your professional capacity in the community—I know you are an entrepreneur and an elected official—could you describe what your official capacities in the community are please?]	0
I love film, and mine is a 12.5 pixel .	0
They lived on this same road except instead of northeast it was southeast, not too far when you cross Main St reet.	0
We were 3rd—I don’t know, we were based out of Pleiku with the 4th Division.	0
o work, I went with him , but my uncle followed his legacy in the well drilling.	0
and it was ninety one something.	0
I was inducted in Jacksonville.	0
Humanities was great.	0
My daddy is a Q and there are plenty of Qs here this weekend, so I wanted to know if you'd talk about the leadership in that organization.	0
But having the strength to take the right steps towards where you want to go is really good.	0
“Oh, well, your son is a draft evader.	0
[On behalf of our Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, we thank you.]	0
If you can name one or two people within your life, whether it’s your parents, grandparents, teachers, peers, who would you say shaped your life and mindset?	0
You’re talking about the Episcopal Church.	0
He became a surgeon in Indianapolis, Indiana.	0
They come to Taylor County twice a week and they are housed out in a parking lot.	0
Also my grandfather was a great mechanic.	0
This tent church came here and got these members to join the Church of Christ.	0
And a lot of it was out of focus.	0
Was he telling y’all that cause he thought y’all were tough enough, or was he just being cynical?	0
And with my children, their mother and I never told them, 'You got to go to college, you got to go here, you got to go there, you go to do this.'	0
So how was education or the importance of education in Haiti different from the importance of education here in the U.S.?	0
And I have one sister —my brother is sixty- nine.	0
That’s the one I missed out.	0
[I like to close every interview giving the person I spoke with the chance to have any comments they want on the interview or the activity that we're at, and when you finish your comments that'll conclude the interview.]	0
My major was math.	0
I was told if you get an education and if you do the right thing, good things would come back to you.	0
Yes they are.	0
"[He was Caucasian, and we were African— American, or we were the colored people"" as we were called then.]"""	0
Because I was very closed with myself.	0
[So he was a real dedicated man in what he was doing.]	0
She was also in club and in the Methodist church.	0
I don’t care what color you are, that uniform is what matters to me.	0
[Okay I knew where Havana is I was there at a wedding with a friend of mine he got married; it was a beautiful area we really liked being there.]	0
We stayed up there, it was just bad thing to see.	0
They were like I want to say twenty-five cent.	0
As she got older, I would go visit her and we would stand around and talk and she would be standing there and I would seeing her moving just trying to get out of my way, and I'm not about to bump her or something, but, from her depth perception, she didn't know how close I was getting to her, and she constantly moved and was feeling for me, in terms of how close I would get to her and et cetera.	0
[Was Rose Taylor, and she was half Native American Indian.]	0
There were, because when I went into the military, it was just becoming desegregated.	0
and we said Qs are men.	0
and so he expanded on it and went to — let’s see that was probably tenth grade or eleventh grade.	0
Or, when the kids get out of school, grandmamma is right down the hallway from them and their down at the Boys and Girls Club.	0
We called it hung; a couple of mortars the term is hung .	0
Well, I ’ve never had to really —I never had a problem that I had to go to him , or was sent to him by one of the teachers .	0
[See you have a lot of memories here, who was your favorite teacher?]	0
And when I be away for six months or a year or whatever time it is, I come home, you have to fill me in on what’s going on.	0
It wasn’t all about me, and it wasn’t all about the east, because we had people of all origins around that had done things.	0
And people who had gone through the same experiences as me, but upon the move to Alabama, that was completely changed.	0
Because she was so concerned about the kids eating and that they get enough to eat and her theory was a kid can't learn with a hungry stomach.	0
"[See I was in the bridge group"" that is,  I was teaching here when we closed down and moved to Taylor County High,  and we cannot say that we lost so much that we can never grow again.]"""	0
What was their reaction?	0
And that was in 19 	0
And Mr. Priest was one of the big— he was one of the first ones I remember there.	0
but Al to me is Higgins.”	0
All that’s changed to me is the color of your hair.	0
Because now, you are sitting with your doors down, four down four, it the net it could fight.	0
I found out today that he was the director of the male chorus.	0
So I really didn’t get much in that deep in schooling because I felt, I left when I was nine.	0
Now, you weren’t educated in Jacksonville, but you do have your early education.	0
That was my way of seeing myself do a lot of things, visiting other countries.	0
So it just wasn’t that common to go to the doctor?	0
You know, management or leadership is one of the qualities that needs to happen in management.	0
It was first to eighth.	0
But y’all were together, you just didn’t know them.	0
People don’t care about English anymore, I don’t know why.	0
Another school was—Lincoln was bad.	0
[Well as a board member, we create policy for our school system and that's generally administered by our administrative staff and we basically just approve of it or disapprove.]	0
And what are their names?	0
Loughridge is a family that has been in Taylor County for a long time– owned a lot of property.	0
Was that by your commanding officer, or was that by the sergeant?	0
When you listen to this music, that’s what it reminds you of?	0
Vice president —what were your responsibilities as the vice president of the senior class?	0
Learned to speak a little Spanish.	0
You shared these stories with the students?	0
I really want to make some impacts in education because it has changed so much and this is just the beginning.	0
Well another parent would come and I’d say, “Oh.”	0
I was to turn the kitchen over to my brother, clean, all dishes cleaned and put away and all scrubbing done, nicely and neatly.	0
Well, my parents bought into that.	0
That's the second example that you gave of that as well, because you also talked about some inter-disciplinary challenges given to you by Coach Turner.	0
Even though she wasn't supposed to do it, she would find a way.	0
[Yeah, I was a teenager when the first child was born.]	0
They truly cared about their students, and it made you want to learn, and it gave you the initiative to put forth the effort to learn, because of the care that they exerted for the students.	0
I didn’t know I was hit all where I was hit.	0
Your husband took a sharp picture, too, I like all his military pictures.	0
Things are too different.	0
Those were the things we were just accustomed to.	0
The experiences that your parents had.	0
The Alphas were in charge of the school because the president was an Alpha.	0
Or is this before Tet?	0
My six brothers they was —my dad was a farmer , so they ha	1
[Well thank you very much, Mr. Dennis, for speaking with me today.]	0
One of the first projects they did was to renovate the cafeteria.	0
I can talk about the work place, I can discuss mathematics, different ideas, different thought processes with them.	0
And so really I didn’t make a dollar a day , but I knew how to spend my money and we were going to school.	0
When she comes to the school , it’s just the parents don’t cooperate with teachers and the teachers don’t cooperate with the parents.	0
I think it was New Year’s of 67.	0
And the day that he was supposed to got his letter , Southern which accepted him —Southern State their administration.	0
Talkin’ about dancin’ though, in high school I was a sophomore and they had junior/ senior proms, but they have the sophomore serve and everything.	0
Only thing I felt was this knuckle and this shoulder.	0
We used to have to wash — you know what?	0
And my teacher that was teaching me the 7th and 8th grade, before I got promoted to the 9th, his name was Robert Allen , out of Palatka.	0
Small fragments that just —those are my biggest wounds.	0
Not even where that is.	0
Her birthday was January 17, 1948.	0
But then my four years that I actually got a chance to play, which was my freshman year in 93, we won the SCC Title all for years.	0
[But most Blacks aren't taking advantage of it.]	0
And what is her name?	0
[How do you feel about being here today and why is this so exciting?]	0
I just wanted to take care of her .	0
I don’t hate White people, but it’s just a historical thing.	0
For me, I was fortunate enough to receive a scholarship to play football at the University of Florida, and so I moved on and played college ball.	0
It's a very nice facility– much smaller than what the Jerkins Center is.	0
Yeah, it was different.	0
but we interact with the Black and Whites interacted on a daily basis.	0
Well May was the sweetest thing, she was the only one in there, but I had several after that.	0
What years was that?	1
And so what was it like?	0
Her name was Altora Johnson—no, Altora Strickland .	0
[What happened in 59 that ended your situation of caretaking?]	0
[Because he gave us such a desire to excel, in fact I was playing football for him at 130 pounds and received a scholarship to college and as a running back in college 135 pounds.]	0
You can try to change history and try to change the narrative, but you can’t change the hurt, the poverty, the economy, the social instability and any other trauma that has been caused.	0
And she did just fine and got a good job, I was so proud.	0
[After I stayed home a while, I took care of the younger kids, and I just kind of didn't want, just kind of lost interest in going to school.]	0
And all your friends were there?	0
I miss my husband going to work.	0
It’s just the area.	0
All you had to put on there was High Springs.	0
Very much so, by my grandparents, paternal, being in Gainesville, and as far as I know they were born in Gainesville.	0
I didn’t go over there with the 4th Division.	0
And when I went in, Mom and Dad, they didn’t want me to go, period, But when they knew anything, I was gone.	0
Except there was a war going on.	0
Momma was a superintendent and the Sunday school teacher for years , and she was in the church when she died.	0
John the Baptist come out of the tribe of Levi, that was the priesthood back in the day.	1
I was christened in the same church that my father was christened.	0
[Is it possible to take pride as a Black American and a Black Floridian and to be an American these days, because some people say that is a hard thing to do, I mean how do you accomplish that pride with being Black and an American at the same time?]	0
There was a shirt factory that wanted to come here and give people jobs.	0
But, then, other stuff was bought within the community?	0
We want to establish a Jerkin museum, and maybe expand that to an African American museum just for Taylor County.	0
Now where is this?	0
And I was married in the church, and Bonnie was married in the church.	0
When I was growing up, not many jobs in the local town.	0
[So what is it about Jerkins that motivated you to come and be here today?]	0
[The oldest boy, who is now deceased, is Nelson.]	0
So for a large part of my high school years, there was three boys and three girls; and so it was kinda split up, you know.	1
So the only —I can’t say the only —the best way to improve that is by the use of better means of communicating and the only time that I can communicate is after I get off of work, five o’clock .	0
[And we pretty much felt that we were going to do well because we heard her praying and mom and dad sent all seven of us to college, and six out of seven of us earned college degrees.]	0
They were off in the distance.	0
I think it was November of 68.	0
But people would always say when I would give them a choice —“You like this one, black and white from the film, or you like this one from the black and white film ?”	0
And it was a pretty good song and all, on the field up there at our last football game.	0
So actually, another thing that probably saved me from going back was when I would play volleyball, the ball would hit one of my fingers, because a fragment was enlarged between the bone , and it would sprain the whole hand .	0
So, when they built the cafeteria, then, he thought about my mother because she was still coming to see about her girls.	0
[Some of the boys come home, and here for a while, and we gonna have a meal afterwards and just get a chance to reminisce and enjoy one another.]	0
[Mr. Bishop, thank you for speaking with me.]	0
[I was born in Perry.]	0
Now, after graduating from high school and/or college or whatever, nobody ever asked me to name the 206 bones of the body again, but Coach had that inter-disciplinary instruction method.	0
And his son married a pretty girl from Alabama, and you might have seen a pretty brick home not too far from here, which you have to leave this room to go over.	0
Okay, hello today is, July 24th, 2019.	0
No, she was just a friend.	0
If he needed to talk to somebody, and I probably heard him to talk to people, you know, he was not irrational .	0
At first , when they asked me about doing this, they was basically concerned on the east side, back in the day.	1
and I knew her younger sister.	0
and she was born in East Palatka, Florida.	0
But you didn't feel anything because they was your friends, and you were getting them out to be sent home.	1
There was a knife or anything drawn like that.	0
[I was in the Army, and I served during the Vietnam era.]	0
"He said, What I'll do is let you teach all music and one twelfth grade class of government."""	0
Yeah, my grandma used to mention President Aristide and how he really brought a change to the country and it wasn’t necessarily a good change.	0
Read books, or watch television.	0
He wanted his son back.	0
Her last child was a daughter, Marybeth, who lives now in Gainesville.	0
And she knew I needed to pull out, because things was getting a little bit crazy.	1
During that time—that’s mostly how my grandparents them learned from the White peoples were teaching them.	0
It is evident that Christ come out of the tribe of Judah.	0
What are the chances we're going to see this come together in the next five years or so?	0
Okay my oldest boy name is Gershon Thomas and the second’s name Ezra .	0
That we send all of the brainy ones out to other communities and we are left with what's left.	0
My dad was an 82nd Airborne, I think I told you I was born at Fort Bragg.	0
Let’s see, what we was called?	1
Were there any strong feelings about that , or was everyone just , “Well that’s the school we have to go to”?	0
He was a pretty good pitcher.	0
The word I’m trying to say is that we was already initiated and we was already conditioned.	1
Course they were children, of course they had no idea that we went through stuff like we did in Vietnam.	0
You know, grandmamma could be right over from the kid in daycare.	0
I feel like that was really important because if there’s something good there and you don’t know there’s something good there then it doesn’t really help you.	0
We really appreciate the effort and stuff that you all have done to record some of the oral history that has been around Taylor County and really not recorded or taken down any place.	0
And this process went along for about fifteen to twenty minutes.	0
But they was a Gordon, and somebody ’ children momma could have been a Gordon or a Davis, you know what I’m saying?	1
Did you ever have to do things that you wished you hadn’t when you were there?	0
The plight of the so- called Black man and woman and also some of the Indians, most of the Indians were brought here as slaves, sold as bond men and bond women and just very similar to what happened in Ancient Egypt.	0
I think we just were very grateful that you all take the time to come over and to be with us, to partner with us.	0
We couldn’t, because our family was also mixed.	0
[This is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral history Program.]	0
[So when schools were integrated in 71 that was still drastic?]	0
And see we had some parents who cared and we had some who didn't care either.	0
But I didn’t think that I was UF material , and I didn’t want to crush it	0
Mostly just take care of it at home?	0
So how were you able to manage that stress from college life, still being a student but also a young adult and still growing and maturing?	0
[And she took five of us, sisters and brothers in.]	0
[School system was integrated, yeah.]	0
She was very, very good.	0
So those are shrapnel wounds.	0
So it’s just a whole history of African Americans condensed so that we can explore the different avenues.	0
I said , “Well is it as clear as mud?”	0
So you wouldn’t see, you were just sticking it up over your head out of the top and just firing.	0
And it was demoralizing.	0
So, it was truly a one- room school house with the two halves.	0
[They went in the back door, they did because they wanted a drink, came out, they went in, but I was not going to go in that store.]	0
And I asked her one day what was the name of that song that she always played for graduation.	0
She tried to make it look like I had excessive absenteeism.	0
And you mentioned baseball , so that’s unfortunately a sport where you don’t hear as much about Black student participation with baseball but these were all Black baseball teams correct?	0
[My name is Chester H Demps.]	0
And so, those kind of things that really make events like this good and special.	0
"A young lady, Shirley Williams was telling me that the teacher had her do a problem on the board, and she did the problem, and she looked at him and asked, What do you think?"""""	0
From the best teacher that this town has ever had.	0
And so we had a lot of tourists and they would stop there and you might have seen this store— it has a balcony up there.	0
[Do you feel that was something important that has been lost in the school system today?]	0
They just bought, they sneaked their paganism into religion.	0
Diagraming is something —	0
You were very young?	0
I guess my graduating class was 56, but I left in 1954 and went military.	0
That’s the oldest church I think, besides the Episcopal.	0
He was Associate Dean at the medical school, at the Indiana University.	0
It was supposed to have been over but they were still having skirmishes over there.	0
But, I said, 'What we were trying to do, inspire you to be something.	0
I think the principal name is Mr. Warner, if I recall it right.	0
My mom was born in Lake City and my dad was born in Georgia.	0
So one family may pick peas, and you share those peas with other family.	0
That was his church.	0
I would hit the volleyball , and it would sprain this hand, because I got hit through this knuckle.	0
And what years were those?	0
So our social activities are not on the same level because I like to be involved with people.	0
It was like a squad of about twelve people.	0
He taught us how to be a soldier, how to close all the drills, and what to expect, the discipline and everything in the military.	0
[Oh, I almost forget, I like to close my interviews by letting the person that I spoke with make some kind of comment or maybe something about the interview or just a final thought whatever it is and when you finish your thought that will be the end of the interview.]	0
Had went out, they send somebody that way, that way the patrol while the company is set up to try to ease out to see what lies in the enemy movement out there.	0
Because we are in fear of getting in trouble, in fear of going to jail, we have fear of different things and the consequences of things.	0
I think it was couple days.	0
[I would say they, the family, my mother's family—originally, they were Baptists people, here in Jacksonville, Florida.]	0
What was Santa Fe Junior College like?	0
What was the building like?	0
So when we got up there, everything was stable.	0
Well that kind of goes back to when I was in high school, first I was introduced to how the government works back in seventh and eighth grade.	0
We didn’t have to go into battle; they was disciplined that way.	1
[The old love you don't love, you don't seem to be loving as close as you used to be when you was growing up.]	1
You can talk about something in the interview, you can talk about something we didn’t talk about, you can close out with something else, but when you’ve finish your remarks, that ’ll conclude the interview, with our thanks.	0
So that’s how that is, that’s one reason why I had my boy’s name changed.	0
So, that’s a piece of history that I walk around with.	0
See the brownie, you look down, through that little square job.	0
My grandfather Ernest Megally , he was a	0
How does this event help you deal with some of the more serious issues in the community in a constructive manner?	0
They were dedicated.	0
but I don’t know who actually was the head of it.	0
[I just remember feeling very, very angry that this thing was happening to the people in the southern states.]	0
They weren’t here but eighteen months.	0
So that was home life.	0
Another situation, no I don’t want to put this one tape I’m not gonna say that one.	0
But once I let that go and once I got comfortable in the position I was in, I really started to progress in the environment I was in really fueled and gave me what I needed to push forward.	0
Boy this gonna be alright .	0
[But it's amazing that you would have this impression of him being uncomfortable.]	0
Oh, the names of my parents?	0
[Norristown is known for its mental hospital.]	0
There are some that taught and stayed with some adults within the community, but the majority of our teachers here at Jerkins stayed in the community itself.	0
[And, what class of Jerkins were you, sir?]	0
If I’m remembering this correctly, five years.	0
The last time that we spoke you were very forthcoming in your discussion of your participation in the Vietnam War , and also your experiences with the Veteran’s Administration following.	0
[Yes, my oldest sister Norma Scott in Thomasville, Georgia.]	0
Did you ever hear of anything like that, that the Vietnamese people were very aware of the Civil Rights Movement and things like that?	0
I’ll kind of explain all this stuff that it says.	0
And if we had to use the restroom the restroom was around the back which was built into the building but the restroom had signs on them that said “Colored,” and one said “White” .	0
So, what were you doing when you heard about the fact that he was killed?	0
[Now that I look back in hindsight I should have gone back to school, no matter what was happening with the rest of the people I should have found a way to go back to school, and gotten my education, became a teacher, life would have been a lot easier for me.]	0
They was really puzzled.	1
Sometimes the leader of the organization may very well be one of the individuals on the team because they will support that person in the front and help them to accomplish the goals that they need to do.	0
So, when I got back that night, the fragment was enlarged right in there .	0
Ten cents an hour to carry wood in for a family and carry ashes out and sweep and take care of the yard and that kind of thing .	0
And she missed her lunch, everything, trying to work this problem.	0
I was just saying, I just had a roundtable discussion with my family, my whole family.	0
What was it like , and who did you take?	0
So, the reason why she was hired was because she used to come to the school frequently to bring me and my sisters, there was four girls; she would come to bring our lunch.	1
So, it taught me to save, and just before school, I remember this one store in Perry.	0
Where it is now.	0
I was just classified as, what was I classified as?	0
And where was he from?	0
I miss that railroad.	0
Listen, in my grade school when I was growing up, I hated to get—if I got a note from school, I got a discipline at school, and when I got a note from school, I went home.	0
[And she thought that was only school in the world to go to.]	0
No it was some kind of paper they print over there, and you be reading about the different units that’s been getting in combat and stuff like that.	1
And where was she born?	0
[He was not only a coach, but he was father figure to the men that needed a father and he was friend figure, and Coach Bell was a younger guy, so he was a friend figure to all of us and they really showed concern about us.]	0
Now, we talk about we need to get the science and the English teachers together, so they can do some interdisciplinary planning and it makes sense because you give the child a reference.	0
And you really would—we slept on air mattresses when we were not on the patrol .	0
[It was more sophisticated.]	0
And as a matter of fact, I got some pictures when I was in high school and a few pictures from the parade, so that had to be in the 50s, closer to the 60s.	0
In Japan was where they sewed my wounds up.	0
Now they must be pretty close if you can be raised a Methodist and go ahead and preach in the Presbyterian Church.	0
[They was not here just for a check because the check was very little, but they was here because they loved us and they was concerned about the better for us.]	1
He was killed right then?	0
We had at one time— and this was Mary Lewis’ dad— had his Chevrolet place right there on the sidewalk.	0
Those rooms are about twenty-five or thirty by sixty, which could easily be cut into small modules and we can have a facility where people need assisted living they could easily come here.	0
Well-known and had been in this community since 1935.	0
[Next was Wesley.]	0
Oh the next day their parents was out there	1
It’s not like the University of Florida is the sole proprietor or anything.	0
To me, it was just taking a test here at school.	0
Who were your main rivals?	0
It was somebody else house	0
His name was, let me think because I just found out his name not long ago.	0
I can’t think of his first name.	0
Although there are shortcomings in that area also.	0
So, that was somewhat home life	0
[And where were you born?]	0
They were just like everybody else to me.	0
And what are their names?	0
Haitians are very traditional so in that sense church in Haiti and church in Deerfield were very similar because they were made of Haitians and it doesn’t matter where the Haitian community is, that tradition stays there.	0
[I went to Gotwals School in Norristown, Pennsylvania.]	0
Wow how do you feel about that knowing that that was the only way you can-	0
Right and as a holistic—it’s an education and not just schooling, in other words.	0
So it wasn’t like leaving to go to work before we left to go to school	0
Okay, there was a meat store on the very end.	0
Those are our short term goals.	0
Well I think this is a good place to wrap up this session, on behalf of our program I want to thank you again, the Sam Proctor Oral History Program, for adding to our Florida archives with your great knowledge of High Springs Ms. Madeline Thomson.	0
Someday it may become a historical place.	0
but I assumed it was not a play gun	0
Well it was great.	0
But segregation at that point in time, at Jerkins, it didn’t bother us because at Jerkins that was a way of life.	0
Yeah, this was a thriving little country town.	0
Alrighty, this is May 12th, 2011, this is Marna Weston interviewing Mr. Cornelius Clayton for the Sam Proctor Oral History Program in our conference room at Pugh Hall.	0
It really is.	0
If you never been in conflict, or never been in the military, a lot of times you don’t realize what harm you’re bringing to your brothers and your sisters by propaganda about talking about the war, about downing the military, by downing your president, by downing the secretary of defense, all these things, negative things that you’re saying against the government is really getting back.	1
I feel like that exposure, like really let me know what my options were.	0
Some was good in the different clubs, some was good at speaking.	1
Within the context of African American history, I forget that most people don’t go through their life thinking “I’m Black,” or “I’m White,” or “I’m Hispanic,” or whatever.	0
And sometimes when we would go out on AOP , which is a listening post, we might go out that night like phone in, go out from the main compound in case the enemy was trying to move at night , but we never did experienced the enemy moving at night.	0
So the dynamic of the country would change and it wasn’t necessarily in a good way.	0
Although my father was only a sixth grade scholar, he had to leave school to take care of his parents and drop out of school.	0
So well -drilling was a popular occupation at that time.	0
Methodist.	0
I’m glad we got lot of people that made it big in those areas , but I just never had interest back in the day .	0
If you did, you were in trouble.	0
[We were just different.]	0
[What do you expect to happen between now and then with this enthusiasm and momentum?]	0
I was at the doctor’s	0
So I said, “Now, you know she wasn’t just walking in the hall .”	0
It’s just that was the way of the life in Vietnam .	0
[Because dad died at age 59, and he was a boy when he first worked with that family as a house boy, so I'd say about fifty years he worked for that family, wow.]	0
We operated those chores on a weekly basis.	0
So I don’t have a dishwasher	0
Dr. Ike Huges, gastroenterologist in that forty years before, the forty years after, no one.	0
[Because many things are not known by, say, the younger generation, they just don't have a clue.]	0
In fact, my mom told us that that's my sister out there from Orlando out there peering in here at me.	0
I found out a long time ago, writing was a function of reading.	0
Yes it was.	0
But that was my first job that taught me how to budget money.	0
I didn’t realize that I was hit in my right shoulder, a small place in my left shoulder, buttocks, left eye.	0
[Since it was in litigation a lot of things were not as they should be.]	0
I dislike learning change.	0
But the enemy —this is the first time that I thought it was all over —the enemy caught the squad just before they got back , and they ambushed them, killed all of them.	0
Did you have any sports idols when you were growing up whether Satchel Page, or Joe Lewis , or anybody stick out for you as significant?	0
[If you were to sum up this whole experience in just a sentence or two, what would you say about the experience of being here at Jerkins this evening for this weekend?]	0
[Now do you feel comfortable sharing who he was or would you rather just leave it?]	0
My first semester I had a hard time finding those specific resources, but I was introduced to BSU in the Reitz Union things really started to progress because one connection leads to one connection which leads to another.	0
And one year, I was a model in the art department.	0
[And different states too, so that was something that went on you know, a lot.]	0
[And my mother's father was a lawyer and could not practice law because of the segregation, so they decided to move up north to Pennsylvania.]	0
See and my mother name was Tammy Lee George.	0
[I was in the car, first time I saw the sign.]	0
Did you feel confident in that they had listened to that—	0
I never cared about golf —well, it’s golf, I said tennis.	0
And I don't know if you noticed a little while, probably about ten minutes ago, I was feeling a little stuff inside, so I'm doing well.	0
And the person they brought in wasn't a pianist at all.	0
So Jerkins was also a safe haven in a way.	0
I would definitely say my parents did.	0
My dad has always been working so it got the position where my mom had a new kid and she needed to work more to make more money because it was more mouths to feed and all that.	0
So, here concern was that these kids that were coming to school hungry would get a nutritious meal and that could be full and then they could learn.	0
The technician had got promoted to another position, so I‘d taken that job, and learned to be a technician; dispensing medication, stocking the floors, all the supplies, prepacking medication until 1972.	0
This teacher, he told the teacher that he didn't know how to write his name, so his regular teacher sent him down there to Ms. So and so and so, and Ms. So and so and so would teach him how to write his name, and he told us he pretended he can't write his name, and then boy once he writes his name and she says, 'Okay, you can go out and play now.'	0
It’s old school, it’s just what it is.	0
or hear ‘em, or what was that like?	0
What was his name?	0
Ninety something percent will perish because their minds have been apprehended in this country by the White power structure.	0
In the U.S. I don’t know I guess over the years of middle school I grew to see that many people were taking education for granted.	0
The course itself is basically a general overview of the history of African Americans in America starting with the initial phase before slavery even into early African American history.	0
and I’ve been saying, “Who was my best elementary teacher?”	0
They thought that was something even though they could get it at home.	0
I’ve enjoyed listening to the stories and hearing your perspective.	0
I said, 'There's a reference area, the reference area will help you look that up.'	0
One was a preacher, the oldest one, and then Jerry was killed in service.	0
[My daddy was John Demps and my mother was Sarah Demps.]	0
[So, once a Black kid know how to read and write, then he's on his way and got a lot of weapon.]	1
[Yes, all of my life; except the time that I was in military.]	0
And all this tawdry fourliner.	0
They paid his tuition, room and board and gave him sixty- something dollars a month to live on and if he made passing grades that would be for another year, another year, another year.	0
He was getting all the Black students out to take ‘em down there and they didn’t need to go down there to whatever they were fussin’ about.	0
[And he was the man that wanted you to learn, and you were going learn.]	0
I used to celebrate pagan holidays like Christmas but I found out that Santa Claus didn’t come down no chimney .	0
Oh yes, they know because I’ve seen some pretty horrible things with eyes too from the time that I was twelve until I grew up to be seventeen years old and leave home.	0
One thing probably people still talk about, that concept of being “Brown- filed” where if you have a supervisor who’s not favorable towards you, they keep you from getting the highest recommendation so they can keep you from moving forward, that’s still a tactic that people talk about today though.	0
Everybody makes mistakes.	0
Was it the same people there when you got back were there when you left and gone to Vietnam?	0
So your mom was your doctor.	0
Well, actually, her brother was a Speed.	0
I wasn’t paying no attention to the news or nothing, because I really didn’t know how bad it was over there.	0
See, that’s how you can tell that you were raised very well, to the point where you wanna give back to your mom and dad.	0
I said , “They had to cross the Blue Ridge Mountains , Alleghany Mountains , and then when they crossed those there’s Ohio River, Kentucky River, Mississippi River all that was the Westward Movement .”	0
That was another space he took up, Mr. Rawls.	0
" You can be accomplished wherever you are; you just need to work at it from your own personal perspective."""	0
[This is August 20, 2010.]	0
And, the house is still there, and I still come to Perry to take care of the house.	0
Is there any kind of scandalous situation from the past you might happen to— not to gossip, but maybe something that happened that was just too big to ignore and everybody knew about it.	0
Lisa Dear.	0
[but here we can look back and see the history shows us in the book here that you were the president of the class so you have been a leader, you know you probably are the leader now]	0
Because whatever we went in for, the goal wouldn’t be accomplished, our mission would be lost.	0
My name is Gloria Jackson, married to my dad in 1981.	0
And I went into the military because the Vietnam War was just—I mean the Korea, I’m sorry.	0
Like, your mother, did she work, did she take care of the family?	0
My name is Drew Frazier.	0
They had two sons and one was in my class at school when I was a student.	0
There was a paper that was telling you about what was going on.	0
That if somebody did something wrong, everybody got punished.	0
What was the culture there?	0
In Haiti education was important but not important in the way where it was a necessity.	0
And this is our first time doing this.	0
[And did you have any sense of the change that was staking place with the lunch counter sit-ins, or any of those things?]	0
[Where were you at?]	0
So, just like my boys, they saw me taking care of the family.	0
The country today can be argued is much different in terms of how people look at , and respond to social issues than they did in the late 1960s.	0
Because she was coming out here to see about us and the principal would see here so often, so he decided that she would be a good one.	0
It was a private school.	0
We can divide up, the yard work, the three boys did and the three girls were kinda divided up what they were going to do in the house.	0
[Who was the coach?]	0
A lot of stuff you see is just a dramatization and they hype it up.	0
I remember my grandma telling me that—because when you see people working on what’s wrong it gives you hope that something will get fixed and I feel like that’s the greatest incentive of the truth commission beyond putting the people in charge responsible, besides holding the people in charge responsible.	0
Fourth grade, was the worst teacher I’ve ever had in all my life and all she was interested in was teaching the girls how to dance.	0
[And that was the case of Alexander V Holmes County?]	0
so I was surrounded by people like and like-minded people like me.	0
Both of them are deceased.	0
She wanted to be an AME coming up as a child but her father gave into her mother, okay you a Baptist, she can be a Baptist, I am a Methodist I go on alone.	0
What was his name?	0
Reunions are wonderful.	0
So 4th Division, that handles everything?	0
No, brownie was the classic.	0
My sister and I played with her little girl, Catherine.	0
How long were you recovering from your wounds?	0
Okay, are you married?	0
And my uncle —he learned those trades from him about mechanics when he was coming up as a teenager.	0
And, was that part of how they told you to get through it?	0
So she was my home sponsor from ninth through twelfth .	0
But what I do is, I found a way —well, I go to CVS and put a border on this.	0
Do you believe these truth commissions are well -known to people around the world or even locally?	0
It is like a community reunion built around a school.	0
Okay, so you were actually working that day.	0
My brother— both of them went to Howard—roommates and were very opposite in their grades.	0
I said, “Well you’re giving yourself away, the smoke, they’re gonna think some Indians are in here with a teepee.”	0
When we came in in the afternoon she was home.	0
That's an incredible dream and vision to have dignity, compassion, a conference of services, access to transportation, intergenerational communication all in one stop.	0
But it was, they felt as though they only took that particular class because you had all the starters on the football team, his class had six starters.	0
A black and white is just what you see here, a black and white.	0
But, my mother, she was very living.	0
How were you welcomed when you came back?	0
When my older brother graduated from high school my younger brother was old enough then to assume that week.	0
I want to ask you about how you’ve seen the country change, from what it was like in the 1960s to today .	0
Yeah, it was a story they did.	0
Because I don’t think I even really been, before that time, close to anybody like I was with him.	0
[Yeah I guess I was.]	0
Everybody knew everybody else and there were a lot of good people and some weren’t so good.	0
They dropped two rounds on us and they were direct hit; a direct hit.	0
I was telling about there was a time the enemy—we didn't do it, but a lot of the enemy got killed, and it was in an area that we have convoy coming through.	0
So where was the Black restaurant or the Black mechanic shop?	0
IA stand for innovation academy, it’s about innovating just because the world is changing and we need to get more innovative and this provides an avenue for that.	1
All of this is coming out.	0
and I’m gonna tell you the real story, because it’s not in this book”?	0
Did you have a favorite subject when you were at Johnson?	0
We had windows that we would put up when it was warm; when it was hot.	0
[And, what branch of the military were you in and where did you serve?]	0
I said , “Is his daddy home?”	0
He was Mr. Small.	0
So we was taking a break, going dig in at night, we always dig in and cut us some wood and fill sand bags in case we get mortared.	1
We had an English book that was in business.	0
He was a supervisor of something.	0
You were replacements.	0
Would you mind sharing some of your current short and long term plans for the use of this facility?	0
Well, it was secure and safe.	0
What is special about that Speedville community that ties people together over there?	0
My parents lived here in Gainesville, but when it was time for my birth, she went to East Palatka to be with her people for assistance.	0
Okay now about your parent’s parents, if we could take it back a generation, who were your mother’s parents?	0
You know a lot of people, it's a lot of young people here that do not know a lot of the stuff that you all will be hearing about this school and how significant it was and people's lives that lived here.	0
Mine, you looked through the —I can say, mine was the 127.	0
[My blood pressure, heart disease.]	0
[This is August 21, 2010, Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the Jerkins Community Center, formerly Jerkins High School in Perry, Florida.]	0
and I was one that was chosen .	0
[I heard a lot this evening about Jerkins being a community from all of your classmates and the community members who are here and you, also, gave a very soulful prayer that asked for guidance and blessings from on high, and it seemed to have some of those same elements.]	0
They also dropped cluster bombs , which is little mini bombs , because we was up the hill in the crater down on the ground, but believe me when the jets come they dropped that stuff, we still, I mean none of it affected us, but you still get down.	1
[But why is that important to you, to have your grandkids know about this legacy of Jerkins High School?]	0
And wherever my parents go, I’m going home.	0
And also enhances your knowledge of African American history?	0
You know, the other people that I was dating .	0
His wife was the daughter of the lady who worked for us.	0
So I was surrounded by people that were growing and heading the same direction as me	0
[His name was Fred Mccour.]	0
I’d hurt my back and I got kicked out of my job—wrongly kicked out of my job by my White supervisor.	0
Then from there they closed that school at the end of that year down to eighth grade and I moved into Lincoln—t hat was the new Lincoln that year —to teach science and social studies and I was invited to join the class at Nova University to work on my Doctorate degree there.	0
So because out there if was poor, you’re poor.	0
Speedville is a different direction than Johnson.	0
And a lot of times, if it was in the jungle, you shooting where the fire is coming from.	0
That was the other school.	0
You were single head of household, is what they call you.	0
So when it finally cooled down they was not firing back at us, and we assumed that either they were gone or they were dead, the enemy.	1
One thing about the black community here in Taylor County, as we were growing up people within the community would see us and say to us, we want you to be better than us.	0
Just because of the devastation of the earthquake and the relief process, there were efforts like really extended efforts to help the Haitians, at least at the location my grandpa was in.	0
And so you were out of commission for a whole year?	0
And she opened her pocketbook and said, 'This is what a child pulled out today in the room and pointed it at me.'	0
And it was very short.	0
But when they dropped those two rounds , I just thought it was all over.	0
You can kind of see that some of the others that are stepping up and taking on some leadership roles within our community.	0
There were conditions where we went through streams and leeches got on us.	0
With growing up in the area that I grew up in, the good teacher was the only thing we had in the classroom because those teachers inspired many of us to go on to higher education and to be successful in our lives, whatever our path was to be.	0
Like I was being comical with you guys over there.	0
[And as a result of that decision all eleven Southern states that had lost their funds got them back.]	0
She was transferred over to the I believe it was Taylor County Junior High School and she worked another three years there and she retired because of her health.	0
[What activities were you involved with when you were a student here at Jerkins?]	0
And that’s what, like I said before I told my son too, he’s an orthopedic surgeon, but he’s a major in the Air Force and his wife, she’s a lieutenant colonel.	0
Well, I was asked to do this presentation at the library.	0
So, there is a Loughridge Park.	0
Yes, moving to Gainesville was life changing because previously I was in high school not working.	0
The experience was we got second-hand books, and our teachers were not paid very highly.	0
The late 1960s there was the Vietnam War , there was the movement, there was King, there was Johnson not running for election.	0
I said , “Because if you don’t come, he is not coming either ”  .	0
[Well but you know about the history of Jerkins High School because you were the president of the class.]	0
[Because I was sent there by one of my aunts, she had gone there.]	0
You reach by telling the truth and staying true to the people who are willing to tell their truth to gain restoration and peace within their community and the government establishments.	0
that was aggravating.	0
Some sitting in the seat , and some are sitting around the floor.	0
Ultimately, it was the need for opportunity.	0
Yes, besides the mindset I would say it was also, not necessarily traditions, but the tendencies of people at the time.	0
I was standing near the door and I was just watchin’ my girls and waitin’ for ‘em if they needed me and all.	0
Okay, well that was during a hot time , you know —!	0
but it is the result of a lawsuit brought by members of the Taylor County Leadership in its very infancy, beginning, of Taylor County Leadership.	0
But you see, it’s things like this, I found out in life you can’t hold on to the past.	0
If you mess up a dish clean it, if you drop something on the floor, pick it up because nobody gonna come behind you and pick it up.	0
Yeah, because we were talking about the 60s.	0
But at the same time, I know this is going to contradict what I just said, but if you did have the education you were looked at as more.	0
If you got blew up, they knew in that direction something bad was happening.	0
The intent was to have this to bring them back together.	0
They ’d try to fly us out a hot meal once a week, if it was safe and nothing going on.	0
He was a	0
[And I've wasted many years, because they would have learned more, I feel like they would have learnt more about our history then they would over there.]	0
[He didn't want to sit by this particular person because he acted like he thought he was better than she.]	0
But anyway, we went while they were having a revival	0
Do you recall what any of those businesses were?	0
So there were four brothers, five brothers all total.	0
But, you really were!	0
And she was the baby.	0
"[They called it, they referred to it as the Dutch country"" and now I think,  I've learned now,  that it was the Amish country in Pennsylvania.]"""	0
And all o f a sudden this guy he gets up; long haired hippie, hippie like all the way jeans .	0
I was really, really held to high expectations.	0
[However, my youngest sister finished at Taylor County High School, she attended Jerkins until ninth grade and she went on to Florida State to earn her degree, but the rest of us were, Allen University, FAMU, University of Georgia, University of]	0
Your only job is to go to school and get an education.	0
But his class was a class that you didn’t want to miss.	0
[Yeah we attended an Episcopalian church.]	0
