Text	Person/num. agreement
Because I mean if peoples in America; not only black people; is losing out because they are sitting down and letting other people getting ahead of them and that’s the reason we are getting behind.	1
They said because it was such a bad; back in the day; it was such a bad area.	0
"It's just that if you put me in this little hole and you say I can't do this, I can't do that, anything that made it appear as though you were equal or better, made the whole race feel like you’re somebody."	0
"Now , this is your actual Bachelor of Science, your Bachelor’s degree from Florida A&M."	0
I think we’ve always had a nursery here.	0
And were they also from the Gainesville area?	0
Do you have brothers and sisters?	0
You know; they didn't want to bring that up.	0
We have GED classes; parenting classes; we have a nursery on Sundays for the one’s that parent’s what to come and enjoy the service; there is a nursery available for them to bring their kids; and they can sit while they enjoying.	0
Second grade before I had to come out of school; go to work.	0
"And I was gone, and the other three girls she had."	0
Live over by Brooklyn Church.	0
I copied twenty five words a minute.	0
When that occurred; what reflections did you have on your career and being honored in that way?	0
Were you chopping; did you have the dagger; did you have corn?	0
Now;this is something I’ve grappled with for a long time; because what we callthe Ella Baker Model; in terms of grassroots leadership; I think .	0
I don't know whether she was or not; but she probably could have been.	0
Our organization kind of morphed into a group; it formed in 1984;called the New African People’s Organization.	0
So; we kinda like had to deal with it.	0
They was young.	1
Some of my professors’ daughters; three daughters; all three of them was teachers.	1
Seeing a black man in the White House and other people voting for him then you know it’s a chance for you.	0
What do they do now?	0
And so that’s why I’m here tonight.	0
Can you tell me about that; who was Missus Cealie and –	0
Did you guys kind of have a community it sounds like down in that area?	0
But I guess that was the way they was teaching us.	1
I’m going ask you this : how long did I work?	0
And I understand and talking to Claude that he would invite the guys even to his house.	0
And me and my daddy was in there; and I wanted a bicycle.	1
Yeah; we was able to go to school if we did have to walk to school.	1
"And they were like; ""Oh; it can't be that."	0
pardon me; thank you very much.	0
They would hitch themselves to us without anybody asking them to and mentor and coach us into where they felt we should be.	0
I went out on two funerals in two years and I didn't want to go to them two but that's my job.	0
It was located on Ray Street; not on Ray Street; a couple of blocks from our church and a couple of blocks from where I live and my mom would – all 3 of my two older brothers; she would walk us there 5 days a week and then when we – on Sundays; she was our teacher; here at Macedonia and the old Macedonia.	0
So I don’t know if that helpsexplain how the topic—	0
Did you coach the offense or the defense?	0
See my brothers; they was young.	1
I’m sure you’ve probably heard that on television and the commercials.	0
Your mother wasn’t making all these beautiful clothes like they’re making them now.	0
"Well, my first reflection would be the first day that I came on campus, and going down the hill, and coming up to J. Hillis Miller Health Center."	0
Everywhere we went in the Jerkins arena; we was touching like family.	1
And when she got down there; she just bent over and flipped it.	0
It meant that we had history to a certain extent because he was the first black president we ever had but we need more from him than that.	0
Would you please state your full name?	0
"One, the senior year, it was awful."	0
Yeah because that was…church was the only place that we had to go to meet; and we didn’t know nothing else to go but church.	0
We sent it in.	0
"Yes ma’am, I try to remember what you —"	0
I had five scholarships graduating from high school; so I wanted to go to Rock Hill; South Carolina; finish up junior college where all my friends was going.	1
I didn’t come here to say—	0
During my years; we didn't have a band at our school.	0
I came in as a freshman; I went to preview that summer.	0
Did you know Missus Bethune?	0
How long were you married for?	0
"She had an appointment next Thursday , and I had to do that before I left to come here."	0
"Now, did you have any good experiences at Lincoln?"	0
And you were under control with your family.	0
They weren’t paying all that much now what they was paying you.	1
Be teaching in summer school; be director of when they grow older of the programs and things.	0
I started in September of 1965.	0
Some of them was much older; but they allowed that .	1
There was no .	0
We would all- there's something in the afternoon for children and we called it the AME League.	0
Selene and Tyra; those are my biological; and then I have Gale and Lakisha who's my step children.	1
My name is Ronald Wilson I'm here with Pastor Byron Williams interviewing Missus Elizabeth Davis.	0
In fact we'd sit around waiting to hear the stories; about what went on at the games 'cause they were in there selling the sodas and the popcorn.	0
But I’m a United Methodist.	0
So; you know; that’s where Ireally want to be.	0
Like man I'm .	0
And I couldn’t get her to apply anywhere else.	0
"And, you know back in that time, all of the civil rights and stuff was going on, and we were bonding."	0
I do.	0
It really didn’t make a-you know I really couldn’t connect with the book because it really never made any sense with me.	0
So she called him out the room; and that was the one time I think he knew that; that I could talk to him.	0
I can remember the sergeant that I worked for at the time.	0
This Professor Jenkins had three gals and all of them was teachers.	1
"That’s where my son live , and we go back and forth up there for various things: wedding, and for the birth of my grandkids, and for their baptism and.."	1
"I forgot to ask you earlier, but what did it mean to you when they closed Lincoln High School down?"	0
I remember thinking: how would I ever find my way around in this huge building?	0
Or did you just-	0
And she don't have any kids.	1
I was the oldest daughter.	0
"These niggers can’t teach, they don’t know how to do anything. ”"	0
But really what got me on my dissertation topic—and tothink about this whole armed self-defense piece—was; when I was in collegeand; as a student activist I was a part of a group called the NationalBlack Students Association.	0
So yeah that was another thing that we encountered.	0
Different people was up our grade in Dewall; they had farms and things that they worked for.	1
No they was ________.	1
So I ended up going to college; as I mentioned; my freshman year; andI began to read about this other political prisoner by the name MaxStafford.	0
He had a sister named Willy Mae- I can't think of- she's right out here in Union County.	0
Or your involvement in the community?	0
I couldn’t abstract those characters out of that book so I finally wrote on the test; I’m sorry I cannot take this test because I did not know that there were characters in The Wasteland even when I think gave it to one.	0
I went and start working with the Department of Mental Health as a nurse’s aide .	0
"I said, Momma got me that time!"	0
Or that you gained inspiration from?	0
So you raised cotton?	0
In Vietnam I experienced one of the worst things in the world.	0
"At this point , she was twenty -four, and at this time also, a professor had gotten shot at FSU because he failed to change a grade on a boy that was trying to get out so he could go to work, and he ask him over and over, you say you’re not going to change the grade?"	1
I see another thing; a bootlegger.	0
Then he had his  that worked with him; excusing my brothers.	0
This was her land and all that old man told the spy has been such a mess because he walked it all.	0
"We went to school in the Springhill Church, Sweet Home Church, and Brooklyn Churches, but we just didn’t keep one."	0
None of us was allowed to smoke; I drank in Pentecost holiness.	1
Yeah I wrote a lot of hot; bad pieces.	0
Would you do these in your room or down in the lobby everywhere?	0
I was big old girl then.	0
The girls was raised up in the church and the  went to school.	1
Attitude will carry you a long ways.	0
And I said; if I have to go through that; I don't want to play no more football.	0
which I never could've imagined.	0
You really didn't know what day your was born because at that time midwives wasn't too much on education and they would give false names and you know misspelled names and date of birth and all that.	1
Why because they just walked the property off instead of terminate it?	0
We took saw and cut down a tree and took a boring bit and bore a hole in it.	0
And then another thing: she was bright like they were.	0
We had car trouble once in a county on our way home on a Sunday morning; and the block of our car just broke.	0
I was raised up on a farm.	0
A lot of people are talking about going to it.	0
Fieldtrips; something; I don't remember that kind of stuff no.	0
Weren’t you teaching at the time?	0
we was in Pentecost holiness and I wasn't allowed to smoke.	1
I'm looking for a business.	0
"I say “ I know I was Black, but I was just doing what you did."	0
Well; the reflection I had was that I feel fortunate that I came along during a time that the type of kids  were much easier than what I see today.	0
Can you name them for me?	0
What are your memories of Jerkins high school?	0
I know that you feel that the time that you spent with your mother; even with her being ill was well worth while.	0
Those teachers that said those things to me now I regret that I didn't take their advice because in business I see where it could have benefited me.	0
We were leading the last three minutes of the game; and that same guy; Booker T; broke our back with about a 6-8 yard run.	0
But I realize now that they say that the United States was free; but I know that we wasn't.	1
Did you ever think about leaving UF?	0
Do not get so involved in what you perceive as not being fair.	0
Do you have any words of wisdom for today’s	0
I never did get a chance to explain that to my children until ya know- 'cause all those memories come back to you 'cause every time they send you out in the field to kill somebody and the way that they was doing body counts that you cut somebody part of the body off and bring it back.	1
For me here at the University; the experiences during that time and after that time have all served to be stepping stones; they have not been stumbling blocks.	0
"Then she decided that she didn’t want to do that , because she was teaching men your- probably your age that was older than she was."	1
"And this capped it off, just being able to come back here."	0
One of the good memories is that I actually you know got a chance to meet girls from all over the country.	0
They were my idols; and I just adored them so that I wanted; even at young age; to do that as a career.	0
"Or, why couldn't you eat in the restaurant?"	0
I thought it was excellent and as I told Angenette; my only regret is that some of the members that have gone on; that this wasn’t done then because they could have given more of the history of Macedonia than some of us now of this generation because they lived it day by day and they are missed because they are gone and not—we may find out later about some things that we should’ve known then and I’m glad that its happened now because the generations that will come after us; at least they will have that foundation.	0
"If it’s convenient for you that would be very nice—I don’t want to put you out with anything, I’d be happy to come with you, or you can bring it back, or we can wait ‘til the end, or whatever is convenient for you."	0
"She prayed that she would win that spelling bee, and the superintendent called the words and I was at school working"	0
That was the last year at Union Academy when the associations integrated; and we won in our class.	0
When we was coming up; my mama taught us; you gon have to give me half of your money.	1
I know.	0
Mister Freddy Banks we said his teeth was too big .	1
My next sister name is Jelula; she live in Mariana; she's here.	1
"This year , the Gator Nation has a slogan, “When did you first become a Gator?”"	0
Is there anything that you like to remember that you would like to tell us?	0
"You know, it just look clean out there, like some one just had cleaned everything."	1
My husband grew up in Hinds County and; well; he got his Bachelor’s from Alcorn.	0
Where'd you all go to school?	0
And my third year teaching I don’t know how I would have handled it if it hadn’t been happening.	0
And our uniforms we practice in because we had to take them and clean them and bring them back the next day; clean.	0
