speaker	text	nullCopula	personNumberAgreement	multipleNegators	existentialItDEY	perfectDone	remotePastBIN	habitualBe
S:	My name is Donald Sanchez, and I am interviewing Dr. Isaac Jones at the Alachua County Headquarters Library on June 5th, 2010.							
S:	All right, Dr. Jones.							
S:	First, it's nice to meet you.							
J:	My pleasure.							
S:	First, I'd like to get a little background history on you: where you were born, your parents, your family, stuff like that.							
J:	Okay.							
J:	I was born in Gainesville.							
J:	Attended the elementary schools here: Williams Elementary, Lincoln High School.							
J:	Went to the military.							
J:	Had an opportunity to play in Army band, but I did not.							
J:	I chose to go to the Air Force.							
J:	Was going to school at Howard University, I was in the military.							
J:	Got out of the Air Force, came back, went to the University of Florida and got my bachelor's, and master's and specialist.							
J:	Bachelor's in Physical Education, master's and specialist in Counseling, and PhD in Counseling/Psychology at the University of Maryland.							
J:	So.							
S:	University of what?							
J:	Maryland.							
S:	Maryland?							
J:	Yeah.							
J:	Okay, so came back here, worked at Santa Fe Community College—							
J:	oh actually, started working at the University of Florida for about three years, working in the dorms as a dorm supervisor.							
J:	And worked in public schools for three years.							
J:	Did some coaching of basketball, football, and baseball.							
J:	Then moved on to Santa Fe Community College, and I was involved in the community ed program, which was initially all the non-credit courses for Alachua County.							
J:	That was in conjunction with the public school system.							
J:	Where we had our classes for people, just about everything you could imagine from wine tasting, to how to apply for loans, to arm chair travel, going around the world in in a hundred-eighty days, computers, literacy, how to study; the whole nine yards.							
J:	And from there, went on and was director of three federally-funded programs, which was Upward Bound, Student Support Services, and Talent Search.							
J:	And married, have two kids; been married for forty years.							
S:	Congratulations.							
J:	Thank you.							
S:	And now what's your wife's name?							
J:	J-E-A-N-N-E-T-T-E							
S:	And what are your children's names?							
J:	My daughter's name is Jocelyn, Jocelyn Ann Jones, and my son is D-A-R-I-A-N Jones.							
S:	And how do you spell Jocelyn?							
J:	J-O-C-E-L-Y-N							
S:	Okay.							
S:	Now, you were born in Gainesville, you said?							
J:	Yes, I was.							
S:	Now, how about your parents?							
J:	My parents were born—my dad was born in Georgia, and my mom was born in Florida, up near Hawthorne.							
S:	Okay.							
S:	What was your father's name?							
J:	Clifford Jones.							
S:	And how about your mother?							
J:	M-A-M-I-E							
S:	And what's her maiden name?							
J:	Fleming.							
S:	Fleming, okay.							
S:	And how did they get to Gainesville?							
J:	My dad at a very young age—back at that time, our kids were sort of mobile.							
J:	So he actually did some, I guess you'd call it, catching the trains, and going different places, and working, and ended up in Florida doing farm work, and working on the railroad, and stuff like that.							
J:	And my mom was pretty much a domestic worker for probably twenty years, and then she was just a housewife that did ironing for doctors and lawyers, and stuff like that.							
S:	Okay.							
S:	Now, what was it like for you growing up in Florida during that time period?							
J:	Well, it was—how shall I explain this?							
J:	From the standpoint of being in our own community, you know, life just went on.							
J:	It was no big deal.							
J:	We participated with other Black kids and families, and stuff like that.							
J:	Was segregation in the public schools.							
J:	We went to Lincoln High School, Williams Elementary, and at that time we did not have—that was the period in which we rode in back of the bus, had to ride in the back of the bus.							
J:	There were separate water fountains.							
J:	And being young—you know, like, six, seven, eight—it really didn't strike me that much.							
J:	As I became older, and I learned feelings and thoughts of older individuals and adults, and as I got older, it was a concern, and a problem, and that kind of thing.							
J:	Went through many, many episodes and periods where there was just outright, blatant racism.							
J:	I had to study out of books that were six or seven years old.							
J:	They were passed from GHS to Lincoln High School.							
J:	So overall, it was a very segregated society, and one in which there was a struggle for economic survival.							
J:	In the country for African Americans, there were difficult times in registering to vote.							
J:	Just a lot of those segregation in terms of hotel accommodations, and stuff like that—eating establishments.							
J:	I came up in that area where that was just non- existent.							
J:	And the latter part of my life, things changed with the Civil Rights Bill and that kind of thing.							
J:	But that's pretty much the way it was.							
J:	If you can get a picture of that, you can imagine what the condition, being what it was, how difficult it must have been for a lot of individuals.							
S:	Yes, sir.							
S:	So now, that was Gainesville, where you grew up at?							
S:	And that's what it was like here?							
J:	Yeah.							
S:	And when you say your own community, you mean the Black community?							
J:	Yeah.							
J:	When I say as a small child, you really, you're interested in just playing and getting along.							
J:	So you didn't see, you didn't really think about it that much.							
J:	When you became an adult and you had to drink out of this fountain, or you were traveling and you couldn't stay in this hotel, you couldn't eat here, et cetera, then it began to become a problem and an issue, that kind of thing.							
J:	Now, law enforcement, it was terrible.							
J:	So, all of those issues we dealt with.							
S:	So, law enforcement didn't really help the Black community much?							
J:	No.							
J:	You really did not feel that law enforcement was there to really help.							
J:	It was that kind of attitude, you know?							
J:	Sort of, people that didn't deserve a lot of amenities and stuff like that.							
J:	Yeah.							
S:	So, now growing up, you're in elementary school.							
S:	You said it didn't really impact you that much, the segregation.							
S:	What age would you say you really started thinking about it, in terms of having a negative effect on you?							
J:	High school.							
J:	High school, when you begin to realize that there was a difference.							
J:	Why did you have to ride in the back of the bus?							
J:	Or, why couldn't you eat in the restaurant?							
J:	Why'd you have to go around back to get a hamburger?							
J:	That's the time that it really became a conscious entity in your life, and you began to resent it.							
J:	You began to not trust White society, because of what you've seen and the way that you've been treated.							
J:	Things like my brother going off to fight in the Korean War, and coming back with posttraumatic syndrome.							
J:	And come back to Gainesville and nothing has changed.							
J:	So those are the kind of issues that we dealt with here, but I'm sure that was pervasive over the country.							
S:	Now, how was your experience at Lincoln?							
J:	Experience at Lincoln was—the books.							
J:	Outdated books that had been used five, six years by GHS							
J:	Then they were sent to Lincoln.							
J:	The fact that we did not have the same facilities, in terms of laboratory science equipment, stuff like that.							
J:	The fact that some of the teachers may not have been the best teachers at the time.							
J:	Those are the kinds of things that stands out in my mind.							
J:	The fact that there was a statewide test that—of course, we could not go to the University of Florida at that time.							
J:	I think it was, like, somewhere in between 1955 and 1960, I think, that the first Black entered the University of Florida.							
J:	So you can see it hasn't been that long.							
J:	But things like the University of Florida test that they gave to eleventh and twelfth graders, we come to find out that kids at GHS had been proctored the test daily, for some time.							
J:	And we would get it cold turkey, never knowing what to expect.							
J:	So, consequently, our scores were lower.							
J:	And it made us feel stupid, simply because we did not do as well on that test.							
J:	And we saw it for the first time the day of, where—just like the comprehensive tests that they give the students now, they proctor them.							
J:	We never had that opportunity.							
J:	So, when they compared the scores, they were quite different.							
J:	And things like that has a lasting effect, because at the time it makes you feel that you're not as good, but you don't know how, and you were not told what had happened.							
J:	You learned this many years later.							
J:	That was the thing, and I think that was pervasive, is that those kinds of things where you had to sit in the back of the bus, or get served out of a back window, over the years and through history, it has a tendency to make you feel less capable.							
J:	The other thing, too: when we looked at television and all of this, and we saw the things that were considered beautiful, like the long, straight hair, the keen features of White women, et cetera.							
J:	And at the same time, during that period of time, kinky hair, broad nose, stuff like that; we're made to feel that that was unattractive.							
J:	And so, for a long, long time—so, you can imagine, over the history of living with these kinds of thoughts and ideas, it affected children into adulthood, et cetera.							
J:	Things are not like that now.							
J:	But part of the movement, "Black is Beautiful," "Say it Loud, I'm Black							
J:	and I'm Proud.							
J:	" You see?							
J:	That was never, it never surfaced with the media and the way we were made to feel about ourselves.							
J:	So that whole era was a very good thing in helping to shape African Americans' attitudes and their feelings, their positive feelings about themselves.							
S:	Now, did you have any good experiences at Lincoln?							
S:	Anything that really stands out to you?							
S:	You enjoyed your time there?							
J:	Everything about Lincoln was good, because we were in our own microcosm.							
J:	You saw from afar; but in your own environment, it was a different world.							
J:	I had an opportunity to—my baseball career, I played varsity in ninth grade.							
J:	You know, I was just in the ninth grade.							
J:	I also participated in the band, had that opportunity to do that.							
J:	I was vice president of the senior class.							
J:	I developed my closest friends at Lincoln.							
J:	My high school band director, who I think saved me, by being that— there's always, I think, an adult in every child's life that they kind of look up to, and had something to do with changing the direction of their life.							
J:	Jerry Miller was that for me, so that was my favorite teacher.							
J:	And to this day, he probably doesn't know what he did for me, but he forced me to learn an instrument, which made my life not as empty.							
J:	An idle mind is the devil's workshop.							
J:	And, you know, I wanted to play baseball and football.							
J:	He'd give me an instrument and I wouldn't go to practice.							
J:	And he'd show up at my house and tell my mom.							
J:	And I was supposed to be at band practice some days, and I'd be out there playing baseball because I wanted to be a baseball player.							
J:	And he'd wait until I'd get ready to bat, which is the favorite part of baseball at that time.							
J:	Then he'd come at me, catch me by the collar, and he'd pull me and put me in his old Dynaflow Buick and he'd haul me off to band practice.							
J:	And I think by him doing that, it has probably more to do with my success than anything in life.							
S:	Which instrument did he make you play?							
J:	I played tuba, the trumpet, and the baritone horn.							
S:	What year did you graduate Lincoln?							
J:	I graduated in 62.							
S:	What did you do once you graduated?							
J:	Went to the military.							
S:	Straight to the military?							
S:	And you said you had an opportunity to join the Army band?							
J:	The Army brought me up to Jacksonville and waited for me to sign papers.							
J:	They came to Lincoln and they auditioned me.							
J:	They were waiting for me to sign, to be part of the Army band.							
J:	And I don't know what it was, I just decided I didn't want to do it, and went to the Air Force.							
J:	That seemed more exciting to me at the time.							
J:	So, that was what that was all about.							
S:	Now, what'd you do in the Air Force?							
J:	I was in communications and intelligence.							
J:	Communication involving coded sending and receiving of messages, and also investigating high-level military officials, secretly.							
S:	Now how would you say your military career, on top of Lincoln, all your experiences at Lincoln, helped to define who you are today?							
J:	When I went to the military, that same kind of attitude existed within the military.							
J:	I mean, it had not been too long that the military had integrated, itself.							
J:	And so you faced a lot of unfair practices in terms of promotions, and to some degree, treatment; but I resisted it, and I fought it.							
J:	I think that was some of the anger that came out.							
J:	But, I learned discipline, and I learned how to do things the right way and with quality.							
J:	Just the mere fact of always having to keep your shoes spit shined, just as simple things as that.							
J:	Making your bed a certain way every day, not varying at any time; that makes you disciplined.							
J:	It makes you responsible.							
J:	It helps you to realize that you operate as a team.							
J:	It presented a lot of discipline in my life, in terms of just the whole thinking process, regardless of whether it was education or what have you.							
J:	You still had to overcome—even though I learned in those areas, still had to overcome the unfair treatment and perceptions at that time.							
J:	I can remember the sergeant that I worked for.							
J:	I was the only one, because I had the opportunity, to use education to go to school at the college.							
J:	I took advantage of it, and nobody else did.							
J:	And I can remember specifically, he tried his best to keep me from having an opportunity to go to school.							
J:	One day in the facility area, he and I went to blows—almost went to blows, didn't go to blows.							
J:	And I'm surprised I didn't get some kind of reprimand or something.							
J:	But he called me a magic word, and we were at odds.							
J:	And I guess it was over the next two years, two and half years, maybe his attitude changed and my attitude change.							
J:	It ended up that this guy put me up for Airman of the Month on three separate occasions, which I never could've imagined.							
J:	I learned from that, that sometimes if you meet people halfway and you show love and respect, you break down a lot of barriers regardless of the color or the race.							
J:	Martin Luther King talked about— he preached love.							
J:	If you tell a man you love him and you keep saying that, it break down barriers.							
J:	You know?							
J:	It's not as harsh, and most times it breaks down barriers, it really does.							
S:	So now, how was that experience, being a full-time soldier and also trying to continue your education?							
J:	I knew when I went to the military that was my aim, because I was not blessed with a family that could afford to send me to college.							
J:	They simply were not able to.							
J:	I knew nothing about financial aid or anything at that time, but I did read about the opportunities by going to the military.							
J:	And that was part of my long-term goal, was to get a start, and eventually get the GI Bill, which I did.							
J:	It was a long range plan, and that was the way I saw my way to get an education, because a lot of my classmates went off to college.							
J:	By the time I got out, they had graduated.							
J:	So.							
S:	What year did you graduate?							
S:	You said it was Howard?							
J:	Well, actually, I did not graduate from Howard, but I had a lot of hours.							
J:	I didn't have that much time to just go full-time,							
J:	yeah.							
J:	But had a lot of hours.							
J:	I graduated from the University of Florida.							
S:	And those hours transferred over to the University?							
J:	Yeah, they did.							
S:	Now, how was your experience at the University?							
J:	Came back in that same atmosphere: unfairness, and kind of feeling like you were not wanted.							
J:	It wasn't as bad; I mean, things over a period of time evolve.							
J:	It wasn't always as really bad, and over the years it's a little bit better, but it was still there.							
J:	I happened to enroll in the College of Physical Education and Health.							
J:	I think I was the first or second Black American to enter that college.							
J:	I had one champion who was a professor.							
J:	The others did everything they could to—well, I'll put it, at least three or four of them did everything they could to make it difficult, extremely difficult.							
J:	And I had one champion who was a young man that came from Ohio, Ohio State.							
J:	He came in and he was my encourager.							
J:	We became more than teacher—this was a White gentleman—we became more than professor-student.							
J:	We actually became friends, and we're still friends today, very good friends.							
J:	But that was the experience of having to fight and almost want to quit, because there were three or four professors in there who seemingly did not want me to succeed.							
J:	But I got over that, and I wasn't going to let it stop me because that was my long-range goal, to get a college education, regardless.							
J:	It was like a passion.							
J:	That made me stronger, because in all of that I learned how to work within the system.							
J:	And not everybody, not all the people in administration or the professors had that attitude.							
J:	Not all.							
J:	There were a lot of people that didn't like what was going on, but they either couldn't do anything about it, or they chose to remain safe.							
J:	But within them, they were good people, almost like it is today.							
J:	Sometimes when you don't say anything, you know, what does that mean?							
J:	Does that mean you agree or disagree?							
J:	You really don't know.							
J:	So that's what happened.							
S:	What year did you graduate from the University of Florida?							
J:	Graduated from the University of Florida, my final degree, in 1973.							
S:	What degree was that?							
J:	That was a degree in counseling.							
S:	Was that a Bachelor's?							
J:	No, that was a Specialist's Degree.							
S:	And then, where did you go once you left the University of Florida?							
S:	Did you continue education?							
J:	I worked, as soon as I graduated, Santa Fe High School—well, when I got my Bachelor's, that was probably around 70, think it was, I worked at the university.							
J:	I was hired to work in the dormitory, supervising the dorms and students.							
J:	I also worked, I think it was two years, as assistant program director in the Reitz Union.							
J:	During all this time, I was enrolled in the Counselor Education program, started working on that degree.							
J:	Graduated in 73.							
J:	Before I graduated, really, the principal called.							
J:	They wanted someone to kind of fill the year out for this gentleman that had a special class.							
J:	I guess you would call it a class of non-traditional students that the school didn't really want to mainstream, to the keep the disruption down, do their own curriculum.							
J:	So the guy got sick, and I came in for about a month.							
J:	Finally, the guy was so sick that he couldn't come back, and the principal, Mr. Blount, he said, "You can have this job if you want.							
J:	If you take it, I'll give you the baseball team.							
J:	" Here I am, I've never coached at that level, but that was part of the package deal.							
J:	So, he wanted to give me the baseball team.							
J:	I didn't accept it.							
J:	I decided that I would see what was at Santa Fe Community College.							
J:	No, after that—from 73 to 76, I worked at a public school as a elementary school counselor.							
J:	In 76, I decided to move on, so from 76 to 2008, I resided at Santa Fe Community College as the director of TRIO programs.							
S:	What kind of programs were those?							
J:	Those were federally-funded educational programs of the government to help students to improve their college graduation rates.							
J:	It provided a lot of services like improving one's math skills, and tutoring, counseling, and all those things to help students improve their grade.							
J:	The main focus was, we're not going to let you fail.							
J:	We're going to do everything possible to see that you graduate from this institution.							
J:	And not only that: when you graduate, we're going to see that you enroll in a four-year institution.							
J:	That's what that was all about.							
S:	How many children do you think you've helped, throughout your time doing that, to move on to a full-time university?							
J:	Let's look at it this way: Upward Bound, there's an enrollment of at least fifty continuously every year, from about 78 to 2008.							
J:	In Student Support Services, there was two hundred that moved from the program.							
J:	So, if you say thirty times two hundred, and then thirty times fifty.							
J:	And the Talent Search was about five hundred.							
J:	So, over thirty years—and then the state program, which picked up in probably five years of about four hundred or five hundred per year, so I don't know how many that equate, but it's been quite a few.							
S:	Now, were these programs focused more towards minorities, or it anyone?							
J:	They were focused toward students that met our criteria, which was first- generation.							
J:	Meaning, basically, that your parents did not have a college education.							
J:	That was the first criteria.							
J:	The other was if a student qualified as being low income, they qualified for the programs.							
J:	The constituency of the program was about forty percent African American, and the others were White and all other nationalities.							
S:	So now, how important was that for you, that you were able to help all these students further their education, since that was something that you were so passionate about when you were younger?							
J:	It really helped, in terms of giving me a feeling that I have done something to help others develop a positive educational experience, the opportunity to have success in a career which hopefully will lead to employment and the ability of you to live a moderately comfortable life and support your family.							
J:	Get off of welfare rolls and on the payrolls.							
J:	It was amazingly satisfying.							
J:	And particularly, I still get kids that I had in the elementary school, and they'll come up to me among friends that I'll be with, and they'll say, "That Dr. Jones, boy, he took me in that room that day, boy, and he tore me up!"							
J:	But now they can deal with it.							
J:	At the time, I'm sure, they were unhappy about it.							
J:	But for them to say that, and some of the people I coached, they'd come up and say, "Hey Coach."							
J:	Some of the students that have gone on and graduated.							
J:	To get feedback like that all the time, and I'm sixty-five now, and been around a long time.							
J:	And I still get feedback from some of the people' lives that I've touched.							
J:	Just like Mr. Miller touched my life, I hope someday somebody will be telling somebody a story how I touched their lives.							
S:	What did it mean to you when President Obama won the presidential election?							
S:	Was that a significant point in your life?							
J:	Yes it was, because I thought I would never see the day.							
J:	It goes to show, I guess, a couple things.							
J:	If you can cross, as an individual, if you can cross over both Black and White, you have the crossover appeal.							
J:	If people perceive you as not polarizing.							
J:	If you're articulate and you have a champion—in this whole world, you got to have a champion.							
J:	That can be one person, or it can many people.							
J:	In this case it was a champion of people in the education arena, students that really pushed the issue.							
J:	So, I think if you have those things going for you: the crossover appeal, the ability to articulate, and the champions in place; I think it proves that you can succeed at any level.							
J:	And I guess if I had to put that in summary, it does not matter, if you do the right thing and you have those things going for you.							
J:	I must say, it will be harder.							
J:	It will be harder.							
J:	But if people perceive you as non- polarizing, intelligent, articulate, I don't think it matters as much.							
J:	And that's what won him over.							
J:	I think the ability to articulate clearly with passion and with vigor; you really didn't see him as an African American.							
J:	So, it was good to see.							
J:	I'm happy that it happened, but I'm even more happier that, I think on many fronts, he's qualified.							
J:	It's not somebody that's going to embarrass, hopefully, the African American community.							
J:	I think his heart is in the—everybody might not agree with him, because we don't agree with anybody all the time, but I think the issues that he's attacking are hard issues that a lot of people, they're moving too fast or what have you.							
J:	But I think they're the right issue.							
J:	As to what degree, how fast they should be moved, I really think he has the welfare of all Americans.							
J:	In summary, it meant a lot to me to see another Jackie Robinson, if you will, and another Joe Louis, if you will, and it's possible.							
J:	And I think that the impact that it not only has on me, it's going to have a lot on Hispanics and African Americans to see what's possible.							
J:	If you believe, right?							
J:	If you believe.							
J:	Yeah.							
S:	What do you do now that you are retired, or semi-retired, you said?							
J:	I asked one guy that was a little older than me, and I remember him back in high school.							
J:	He'd always tell me, "What I wanna.							
J:	" So that's kind of where I am.							
J:	I got up this morning.							
J:	I walked, went to the gym, I read my Bible, I watched a little ESPN, got the meeting with you.							
J:	We've got a couple houses that we've renovated and put on the market.							
J:	I've got a guitar, trombone, a trumpet, a clarinet, a piano, and those are the things that I want to do leisurely, with no pressure, no stress.							
J:	I guess I'm doing what I want to do, most of the time.							
J:	Sometimes people still get you to do things, but I try to avoid that if I can.							
J:	But I'm just enjoying life.							
J:	Me and one of my partners, we got a building on 5th Avenue, we're working toward opening that as a take-out restaurant.							
J:	I don't want to be involved in the working.							
J:	I'm not looking for a job.							
J:	I'm looking for a business.							
J:	So, but to get that up off the ground and it's—things have changed.							
J:	A lot of apartments, University of Florida students are moving into that area.							
J:	So hopefully, we're going to let that be the guide for us in terms of maybe catering, not only to students, but a big part of it, and that's pretty much what I'm involved in.							
J:	My daughter is in law school, and I kind of stay on top of that.							
J:	My son, he's still trying to find himself, so it requires some time for that, but that's pretty much it.							
S:	I forgot to ask you earlier, but what did it mean to you when they closed Lincoln High School down?							
J:	Boy!							
J:	Did not like it.							
J:	Did not like it even more when I became older.							
J:	If you can imagine, the only thing we had as a group, in this community, was Lincoln High School.							
J:	And I'm talking about the entire Black community.							
J:	That was, like, an institution.							
J:	That's like if you take the University of Florida out of Gainesville, what do you have?							
J:	And so, there was tradition, there was history, there was opportunity for African Americans to have an institution in which they were pretty much running, in control of, the opportunity for teachers, and principals, and band directors, and coaches to feel good.							
J:	All that was taken.							
J:	And it really, really hurt the feelings of Black Americans in the community.							
J:	And it still bothers me today, but you can never bring it back.							
J:	I ran for school board, I guess about five, maybe six years ago, and that was going to be one of my dreams, was to restore Lincoln High School, but it didn't happen.							
J:	So, you can see how much it meant to me.							
S:	How about integration?							
S:	How did you feel about that?							
S:	I know some people were for it, some people were against it, both in the White and the Black communities.							
S:	How did you feel about that?							
J:	I'm trying to remember.							
J:	I think a lot of us wanted it because we talked about more opportunity.							
J:	And then when it happened, I didn't feel as good about it because the things that we did have was watered down.							
J:	So, you look at who loses.							
J:	You know?							
J:	Who loses, in the whole scheme of things?							
J:	Whose kids were bussed?							
J:	Whose kids were not bussed?							
J:	And then the deterioration of discipline in the Black—well, in the public school system, and particularly amongst Black youngsters.							
J:	When I came along, there were Black teachers.							
J:	Those discipline problems were not as rampant.							
J:	When I was in the public schools, I had a philosophy of, you did something wrong, you're going to have to reap the consequences.							
J:	I really don't want it to come across—things became more lax.							
J:	White brothers were in the control of the administration and the development of the system.							
J:	It became, "Well, we're going take the paddle out of the school.							
J:	We're going put them in time out.							
J:	" You come to find out, I saw it with my own eyes—I don't know how it is since I've been out of the system—but I saw White teachers not disciplining the kids for whatever reason.							
J:	I don't know if they were afraid, or they'd studied a new philosophy, but that's part of the reason that I think it has hurt.							
J:	Don't get me wrong, I think integration is a good thing, but I wish we didn't even have to use that word, "integration": just, "This is the way the world is.							
J:	"							
J:	But those are things that hurt, because the way that African Americans ran the school and what they held Black kids accountable for in the public schools, it's not that way anymore because government has gotten into it.							
J:	"Oh, you can't do this, you can't do that," and kids know it.							
J:	What I saw the most in school was, I saw teachers throwing up their hands.							
J:	They'd bring kids to my office, they had no discipline, none.							
J:	Couldn't even teach because of discipline.							
J:	Many could not teach.							
J:	There's an art to it.							
J:	And one thing I do hope, getting off the subject, is that you'll learn in your elementary education that—you will learn how to talk to all students, as opposed to talking at them.							
J:	And you'll have success.							
J:	Because if you show respect, you'll get it.							
J:	I can remember when I first started, I talked at them, and I had reactions.							
J:	I finally learned.							
J:	You know, and I'd say, "Charles, I've never done anything to you.							
J:	I'm trying to get this point over to the class.							
J:	Will you help me out?							
J:	Will you help me out, just for a little while?"							
J:	Because they'll be going at each other and there's nothing that you can do, really.							
J:	You can't hit them.							
J:	You send them out, who loses?							
J:	So, you have to call them by name, put your hand on them and say, "Charles, you know your momma didn't teach you that, that kind of thing.							
J:	" Play it off that way.							
J:	Because force with force is a war.							
J:	You don't want that.							
J:	If you remember that, you will have command of your classroom.							
J:	And that's not just with Black kids; all kids.							
J:	Let them know they are somebody.							
S:	Would you say that your struggles growing up in, quote-unquote, a White world, has helped you become a much stronger person?							
J:	I think that when I go back and I look at my dad, I never heard my dad talk about people.							
J:	And I didn't hear a whole lot from my mom in terms of degrading White folks.							
J:	I never heard much of that in my household.							
J:	And consequently, I always looked at it as trying to look at both sides of the argument before I made a decision.							
J:	What's the reason?							
J:	What's the pressure point?							
J:	You know, sometimes you find out the reason, you have a greater understanding of people in general.							
J:	But I would say most of all that my father had the greatest influence in terms of me looking at both sides of the argument, and not being consumed with hate.							
J:	That kind of thing.							
J:	And he probably had more of a right to be hateful.							
J:	And he never told me this, but you can imagine what it must have been in Georgia.							
J:	He was older—at the time he was young, but my dad was eighty-four when he died.							
J:	He never told me, but what I've pieced together in him leaving Georgia at, I don't know, he might have been eleven years old.							
J:	Or thirteen, something like that.							
J:	And they may have run him out of Georgia.							
J:	Because he—I guess by terms back then, he was actually hoboing it on the train, and working before he actually got to Florida.							
J:	And I never heard him denigrate White society that much, when I think he probably had a real legitimate reason, much more so than I did.							
S:	So now, what were some of the biggest influences for you growing up, that kept you strong and persistent throughout all your goals in life?							
J:	One thing that I realized was that I felt that I had to be better.							
J:	That's what I picked up.							
J:	And in order to succeed, you had to be better: more competitive, more articulate, stronger, faster.							
J:	And you had this thing that, since you were not recognized, or you felt like you were the invisible man, or invisible child, that there was no way in the world you were going let anybody beat you in anything.							
J:	And that was the strength that I drew upon.							
J:	And that's why America—not America, the African American community rejoiced when Joe Louis won the Heavyweight Champion of the World, because here is—and maybe it wasn't the right arena—but here is a man that showed that he was better.							
J:	It had nothing to do with wanting to be that way.							
J:	It's just that if you put me in this little hole and you say I can't do this, I can't do that, anything that made it appear as though you were equal or better, made the whole race feel like you're somebody.							
J:	So, that's what made me feel good growing up, wanting to win, that was the driving force.							
J:	It really was.							
J:	You see that today, but not to quite the extent; the Michael Jordan.							
J:	You gotta be better.							
J:	Whenever you're the underdog, sometimes I don't think it has anything to do with color, but at that particular period, that's what it was all about.							
S:	Is there anything you can think of that maybe I forgot to ask, or something else you would like to talk about?							
J:	Not really, I think you covered it pretty well.							
J:	You know, the history reflects that for a long, long time, we were denied access to the University of Florida, which set us back tremendously because we couldn't afford to go to Florida A&M If you think of how many individuals that might've been able to get an education and get off of tax rolls, for years and years.							
J:	We couldn't go, because the opportunity wasn't there.							
J:	But life isn't fair.							
J:	I think that's the biggest thing that we all have to come to grips with, is that life isn't fair, and sometimes you have to encourage yourself because nobody else encourage you.							
J:	You got to encourage yourself sometimes.							
J:	That's where you separate the men from the boys.							
J:	Being a boy, if you don't encourage yourself at some time, people are not going encourage you.							
J:	And I think that was my situation.							
J:	My parents loved me, et cetera, but they would've been happy if I went out and got a job and stayed out of trouble.							
J:	They would have been happy.							
J:	But, I can't think of anything else.							
S:	Well again, I'd like to thank you for your time, and I appreciate you doing this.							
J:	Sure, sure.							
J:	I hope it helps.							
S:	Yes, sir.							
S:	There are a couple of things: would you mind reading over that and signing that?							
S:	The interviewee section?							
S:	That's just saying you're allowing the University of Florida to use this in their archives.							
J:	You won't give names, right?							
S:	Names?							
J:	I mean you don't put names in there, you just do this from the historical perspective, right?							
S:	Yes, sir, they're going to transcribe it into a Word document, and it'll be available for anyone who wants to research Florida history, Lincoln High School, the history of Lincoln, or anything like that; they'll be able to go over these, and possibly do research and stuff like that.							
S:	If there's anything you don't want us to use, you just let me know							
S:	and I can make sure we edit anything out.							
S:	And also, I have to get your address from you							
S:	and they'll send you a copy of the transcript.							
S:	And if there's anything you want to edit, you can send it back to them, and they'll take out anything that you want.							
J:	Okay, I'll have the opportunity to edit?							
S:	Yes, sir.							
J:	Okay, is that what you need?							
S:	Yes sir, thank you very much.							
S:	And also, just a few things: what was your date of birth?							
J:	Four eight, 45.							
S:	And you said that you had a brother.							
S:	Was that your only sibling?							
J:	No, I had a sister.							
S:	What was your brother's name?							
J:	Moses Fleming.							
S:	How about your sister?							
J:	G-E-R-T-R-U-D-E, Gertrude Jones.							
S:	Okay, I think we got everything we need.							
S:	Thank you again very much.							
J:	My pleasure.							
S:	It was a pleasure meeting you.							
J:	Same here.							
