Text	Multiple Negation
We didn't have; you know when you have teachers-qualified teachers-  like Math; English; and what not; you didn't; you had the people that graduated from High School and then they went on and start teaching.	0
Either you didn’t apply for a job or you left a job because your information network gave you information that helped you decide?	0
"And so we told them; we said; ""Look; either you roll with us or you're not coming."	0
I can't think of that captain's name; I really can't at this time.	0
I would have never envision it; when I first-like I said it was a small group of us that were you know; cohesive and trying to manage the university; and trying to get through.	0
Now; you’re not getting no spanking now.	1
I once- Hostile; I can’t say it was hostile you know anything hostile.	0
See; that’s what not so prevalent today.	0
I didn't go back; because I didn't like that kind of.	0
When I first started teaching; they didn't teach me how to come down to the students' level.	0
When you take her out somewhere; always run into somebody say; “Zelphia; oh; ain’t seen you in so long.	0
It wasn’t electric.	0
I didn’t know that you were a minister.	0
But she said she can’t go in there sitting behind the children and my church is a little more comfortable.	0
I’m not saying that other presidents have not had to encounter that but in his particular case he has a double whammy that he’s carrying.	0
There was not any white competition in that there was other black competition.	0
These round here; I don't think so.	0
And then we had administrators who basically were white administration or president who had no clue about racism or race relations.	0
And Hernandez as far as I know—I don’t know if the Hernandezes is still living or not.	0
My husband; I’m sure; would have moved; because he did not like the Delta.	0
They weren't going to be as radical; so to speak.	0
No you can't mess up anything.	0
not varying at any time;	0
When—Iremember; and I’m going to put on tape what my name was before that; it’snot like nobody’s looking for me or anything; but I just don’t put it downthere.	0
And he said; “You couldn’t?	0
I've been all up there over there but I ain't been nowhere in Florida.	1
But these children; if they get to schooling; they won't have to work in nobody's field.	1
"They put that on all of them, I never know what that means."	0
And she said; “That’s not a White girl; she’s a Black girl like you!	0
"At one point they spray-painted all kinds of; you know; I can't remember exactly what; but you know; ""Go Back Blacks” that kind of thing."	0
Yeah I didn't write anything.	0
Unless people give you—and say; look; you just go ahead andmake that decision because I’m not concerned about what our position shouldbe on what’s going on the Middle East right now; because we’re dealing withhow we’re going to eat every day.	0
I don't remember too much about it; but anyway we had to go to school there and then we had the hall  one of Jerkins schools and it was condemned; but then they turned it into a masonic hall.	0
Didn't have no radio home.	1
; not her niece or nephew.	0
"Came back in that same atmosphere: unfairness, and kind of feeling like you were not wanted."	0
She told me there was not going to be a meeting at her house.	0
I don't never want to see you like that.	1
we have not had good leadership.	0
You right; it doesn’t.	0
"Juanita, I didn’t know I had this one here."	0
But that wasn't nothing for me to think that he was doing that to me; because of the black or white thing.	1
But I would tell them to trust in God; be sure to trust in God; don’t never forget wherever you go to make sure that you put your trust in God and to do the Word .	1
Have there been; cause I hadn’t asked about this before; but have there been any tragedies; criminally or something like that that have occurred specifically in the church or the neighborhood that have made people much more security conscious?	0
"So, you have to call them by name, put your hand on them and say, “Charles, you know your momma didn't teach you that, that kind of thing. Play it off that way. Because force with force is a war. You don't want that."	0
Oh now that's one I can't ask because I didn't get around too much.	0
My daddy wouldn't whip you for nothing.	1
I loved going to different programs but I never formally joined anything.	0
"I just don’t believe that students are still being rejected by faculty and other students, and refusing to work with them on any scale."	0
We get through sell this; I am not going to work on nobody's field.	1
Okay now we coming down the hill up this way where _________ house wasn't none of them down there except the Guildcreases then the Burnietts.	1
No; no; no; no.	0
No; it wasn’t.	0
"Like if you talked to my kids ""my daddy never beat me;""but ""I wish he had."	0
There was no outside; nobody felt like they were outside; even someone that was a cousin to somebody else’s cousin; you brought them in and it’s just always been family oriented.	0
I thought it was excellent and as I told Angenette; my only regret is that some of the members that have gone on; that this wasn’t done then because they could have given more of the history of Macedonia than some of us now of this generation because they lived it day by day and they are missed because they are gone and not—we may find out later about some things that we should’ve known then and I’m glad that its happened now because the generations that will come after us; at least they will have that foundation.	0
And we stayed separated- I mean; I divorced her right after then because after she had me put in jail; I knew it wasn't gon be no more of that.	1
I have a copy of it but we are not mentioned in there at all.	0
We’re having a good time; and having a good time won’t make it for you; leave it.	0
Other than that; I didn’t know the difference.	0
Yeah; I mean it was- one time we had a guy; I can't remember exactly why this guy called us from the University of Central Florida; so we showed up down there with like eight brothers and scared the living daylights out of them down there.	0
"And that's why America—not America, the African American community rejoiced when Joe Louis won the Heavyweight Champion of the World, because here is—and maybe it wasn’t the right arena—but here is a man that showed that he was better."	0
And I appreciate it now; because I have never been in trouble.	0
I don't know nothing about that.	1
I would find kids that didn't play football and start them early.	0
So they called us and so now we're riding like fifty grand in our cars trying to hope that nobody saw us slide this money out.	0
"I don’t know which number, I don’t know whether she was number four or number —"	0
No; wasn't no bicycles.	1
"It wasn't as bad; I mean, things over a period of time evolve."	0
It happened because of the dude; somebody is going to die cause I'm not going to be able to communicate with nobody with a microphone.	1
Oh man; just listen to your teacher ; and don't do anything that you  that your parents  wouldn't want you to do; just because this peer pressure thing is kind of rough on kids now; but just listen to your parents and follow the advice of your students  of your teachers.	0
"So the UF police would be like; ""Well we aren't coming” and the Gainesville police would be like; ""Well we are not coming either."	0
"I’ve never interviewed two sisters at once to talk about issues in African -American history in Florida , so this is a first for me to do it this way."	0
Even if you didn't know the people; there are some nice people here.	0
Every one of them told me; well; we are not taking married men.	0
"We had minor stuff, but nothing big."	0
"She told me, “No, no. ”"	0
My grandmother was also from Taitai; GA and her husband I guess was from Taitai; GA I'm not sure.	0
We haven’t really talked about him yet.	0
Wasn't nothing on that side but the railroad just like it is now until we got right over there and Missus Duck and her son Sonny Lee up there.	1
Nobody couldn't wait for me to get up and say because they were going to make fun of me.	1
I didn't want no more of that.	1
All the way from my childhood; I didn't want to be around these kinds of things where there is all that raiding Monroe and stuff like that.	0
So I mean I had no confusion over who to trust and who not to trust.	0
"They'd bring kids to my office, they had no discipline, none."	0
"My mother didn’t allow us to be over there and over there, unsupervised and roaming."	0
I have no regrets about the time that I spent there and like I said; I was young at that particular time.	0
Don’t stay in there.	0
My very first teacher was Missus Warfield; and her husband was a county agent; so I knew him as well as I knew her; because later on when I got involved in 4-H; he carried—it was during segregation; and because I was a child who had interest in that; he would carried me in the car with the fellows to some of the contests; because the Caucasian agent did not believe in carrying black voyagers out of the county.	0
Well; I don’t know Macedonia because we didn’t bring it to the church but we had another lady here who is Missus Edna Jackson.	0
"But here’s what happened, is I never went to school that the county bought."	0
That's not something –	0
we was in Pentecost holiness and I wasn't allowed to smoke.	0
We didn’t have no tobacco.	1
"I wasn’t no midwife , now."	1
But we didn’t go to court or anything but it was headed that way.	0
Not in my arena.	0
"""You ain't got nothing at home you can do?"	1
And I said; if I have to go through that; I don't want to play no more football.	1
But we didn’t have no ride.	1
The things that we had to do; we didn’t have no swimming pool.	1
Oh; I don't see them .	0
But I never really joined; formally joined anything.	0
Ain't nothing I can prove now; it's just what I heard.	1
I can't think of his name.	0
I don't know nothing about that.	1
So you see; we had no professors; we had no clerical persons; no one on football or basketball; we were it.	0
I mean just; you know; and like I said; a lot of the stuff that we did; we used covert tactics so if something went down I mean people wouldn't even know who did it; what happened.	0
People don't tend to know their neighbors; certainly a neighbor is not going to put their hand on a child.	0
But we didn’t have no ride.	1
And I remember getting a present from every teacher in school; and I remember I didn't have to buy no invitations.	1
We lived down there with Theo ___________ And then I lived right up there so you didn't have far to go.	0
I wasn't going to eat nobody else's cooking.	1
He didn't want to buy it; but the man told him; yeah; you ought to buy him a bicycle.	0
And so it was such a mess that the university unofficially said that there could be no more black events on-campus.	0
My mom didn't have any money to send me to college and I figured I could go to the WAX	0
"No, she didn’t remember that."	0
With her not being familiar with the extension service; I had to train her; but still she was over me.	0
Didn't do the little boy.	0
My eight year old granddaughter can get on the internet faster than anybody I've ever seen; and I can't even do that.	0
Learn what this instructor wants; because it's not even about you; it's about what that teacher wants.	0
Put them in church; and if they don't go  I took them.	0
I wasn't going to eat nobody else's cooking.	1
But ain't nobody; believe it or not; is a kin of her except Rally Johnson.	1
"No, I never did."	0
Ain't nothing I can prove now; it's just what I heard.	1
No; it ain't there no more.	1
Missus Dutten's house wasn't there.	0
But I didn’t know that there was a difference; and she didn’t know that I was different from her.	0
You didn’t make me feel uncomfortable; you know; with the emotions that I did encounter so I am grateful.	0
I laid down on the ground; and when I turned around; I said; I am not going to put my hands on no more tobacco.	1
Mister Hart wouldn’t cheat nothing.	1
And when I started talking to my counterparts and they were saying things like; we'll never win.	0
So we weren't just in Gainesville.	0
And I don't remember no kind of bad stuff.	1
So we were didn't want for nothing.	1
The first male; maybe; I’m not sure.	0
During my years; we didn't have a band at our school.	0
Mamma wouldn't let me go!	0
Next time; I say; I'ma get married; I promised a lot of times that I was gon get married; but I never did because I didn't intend too.	0
But they naturally don't want him in there.	0
No; it was not.	0
"Well, we went a long time and didn’t have a school."	0
At lot of people here actually looked to me to find social avenues; because there was none for Black people at the University of Florida.	0
So you say you don't want to mention the Juke Joints but did you have any Juke Joints in the area for African Americans?	0
They didn't make it.	0
you couldn't get nothing but second hand stuff.	1
"Oh, no no no."	0
It was still largely among attitude that- and so that's so our first things was  would get everything in writing; you know; don't be so trusting.	0
I didn't want to call it a Juke Joint and I just wanted to remember it.	0
And you know in that time when I come up; they did not spend a lot on you.	0
I said I only go to church; I don't go no place.	1
Yeah well early on- I guess about that first time we tried to kind of advise undergrads- our stance was to not to believe or trust anything that they were told at any time; you know.	0
"And her answer was , “Well, I mean that we don’t do colored people’ laundry. ”"	0
No; I'm  no; I'm cool.	0
